

     Live-in Staffers' evening duties are divided pretty evenly between the picayune and the unpleasant. Somebody has to hit the
area meetings to verify residents' attendance, while somebody else has to miss a nightly meeting to man the empty House and
phones and do the picayune Daily Log. After the meetings let out, Gately's supposed to do a head-count every hour and make a
Log-entry on who all's there and what's going on. Gately has to do a Chore-patrol and Log-entry on Chore-performance and nail
down tomorrow's Chore-assignments off the weekly sheet. The residents need to have everything expected of them spelled out in
advance so they can't bitch if they get popped for something. Then people who haven't performed on their Chore have to be told
they're on a week's Restriction, which tends to be unpleasant. Gately has to unlock Pat's cabinets and get the key to the meds
locker and open the meds locker. Residents on meds respond to the sound of the meds locker the way a cat will respond to the
sound of a can-opener. They just like materialize. Gately has to dispense oral insulin and Virus-meds and pimple medicine and
antidepressants and lithium to the residents who materialize for meds, and then he has to enter everything in the Medical Log,
which the M. Log is an incredible fucking mess. He has to get out Pat's Week-At-A-Glance book and print out her next day's
appointments on a sheet of paper in block letters, because Pat finds her own palsied handwriting impossible to read. Gately has to
confer with Johnette Foltz about how different residents conducted themselves at St. E.'s Sharing and Caring and Brookline's
B.Y.P. and a Women's NA Step down in East Cambridge they let a couple of the senior females go to, and then Log all the data.
Gately has to go up and check on Kate G., who claimed to be too sick to hit AA again tonight and has been in bed in her room
more or less steadily for three days, reading somebody called Sylvia Plate. Going up onto the women's side of the upstairs is an
incredible pain in the ass because he has to unlock a little steel cage over a little button at the bottom of their stairway by the back
office and press the button to sound an upstairs buzzer and shout up the stairs 'Male on the floor' and then give the female
residents as much time as they need to get decent or whatever before he can come up.
     Going up there has been educational for Gately because he'd always had this idea that women's areas were essentially cleaner
and pleasanter than men's areas. Having to verify the Chore in the women's two bathrooms smashed his longstanding delusion that
women didn't go to the bathroom with the same appalling vigor that men did. Gately'd done a fair amount of cleaning up after his
mother, but he'd never much thought of her as a woman. So the whole unpleasant thing's been an education.
     Gately has to check on Doony Glynn, who has recurrent diverticulitis and has to lie fetal on his bunk when he gets an attack
and has to be brought Motrin and a SlimFast shake that Gately had to make with 2% milk because there was no skim left, and then
Food Bank crackers and a tonic out of the basement's machine when Glynn can't drink the 2% shake, and then Log Glynn's
comments and condition, neither of which are good.
     Somebody has made those disgusting marshmallowy Rice Krispie things in the kitchen and then not cleaned up after
themselves, and Gately has to clomp around finding out who's responsible and get them to clean it up, and the code about ratting
among the residents is such that you'd think he was a narc all of a sudden. The daily bullshit here is hip-deep and not so much
annoying as soul-sucking; a double-shift here now empties him out by dawn, just in time to clean real shit. It hadn't been this way
at the start, the soul-sucking aspect, and Gately every couple minutes wonders again what he'll end up doing when his year's Staff
term is up and his soul is sucked out and he's sober but without any money and still clueless and has to leave here and do
something back Out There.
     Kate Gompert, when he buzzed and went up to the 5-Woman room to look in, had made a possible sideways comment about
hurting herself, <endnote>245</endnote> and Gately has to call Pat at home about it, and she's out or not picking up, so then he has to call the House
Manager and relay the verbatim comment and let her interpret it and tell Gately what action to take and how the comment stands
in relation to Gompert's Suicide Contract and how the whole thing should be Logged. A resident at Ennet had hung herself from a
heating pipe in the basement a couple years before Gately arrived, and there are now baroque procedures for monitoring ideation
among residents with psych issues. The number of 5-East at St. Elizabeth's is on a red card in Pat's Rolodex.
     Gately has to collect the previous week's counselor-reports and collate them and get the residents' files together and get any
updates or changes printed out and into the files for tomorrow's All-Staff Meeting, where the Staff gets together in Pat's office and
interfaces on how each resident seems to be doing. Residents have a pretty good idea that their alumni counselors basically rat
them out in toto at each Staff meeting, which is why counselling sessions tend to be so incredibly dull that only really grateful
giving Ennet alumni are willing to serve as counselors. Filing-organization is picayune, and for Gately using the back office's TP
array to print stuff out is unpleasant, mostly because each of his fingers covers almost three keys of the keyboard and he has to hit
each key carefully with the tip of a pen, which sometimes he forgets to retract the nub of, leaving blue smears on the keys that the
House Manager always gives him an ass-chewing for.
     And Gately has to have each newer resident in to the office for at least a couple minutes to like touch base and see how
they're doing and make it clear they're regarded as existing so they can't just melt into the living room's decor and disappear. The
newest guy's still sitting in the linen closet claiming he's comfortablest there with the door open and the new 'helpless' Amy
Johnson hasn't come back yet. A brand-new Court-Ordered female, Ruth van Cleve, who looks like one of those people you see in
pictures of African famine, has to fill out Intake forms and go through Orientation, and Gately goes over the House rules with her
and gives her a copy of the Ennet House Survival Guide, which some resident years gone had written for Pat.
     Gately has to answer the phone and tell people who call the office for a resident that residents can receive calls only on the
pay phone in the basement, which he has to say yes is frequently busy all the time. The House prohibits cellular/mobiles and has a
Boundary about the office phone for residents. Gately has to kick residents off down there when other residents in line come and
complain they've exceeded their five minutes. This also tends to be unpleasant: the pay phone down there is undigital and un-
shutoffable and a constant source of aggravation and beefs; every conversation is life-and-death; crisis down there 24/7. There's a
special way to kick somebody off a pay phone that's respectful and nonshaming but also firm. Gately has gotten good at assuming
a blank but not passive expression when residents are abusive. There's this look of weary expertise the House Staffers cultivate,
then have to flex their face to get rid of when they're off-duty. Gately's gotten so stoic in the face of abuse that a resident has to
mention actual unnatural acts in connection with his name for Gately to Log the abuse and give out a Restriction. He's respected
and well-liked by almost all the residents, which the House Manager says causes the veteran Staff some concern, because Gately's
job is not to be these people's friend all the time.
     Then in the kitchen with the fucking Krispie-treat bowls and pans still a fucking mess Wade McDade and some other
residents were standing around waiting for various things to toast and boil and McDade was using his finger and pushing the tip of
his nose up so that his nostrils faced straight out at everybody. He was looking piggishly around and asking if people knew any
people where their nose looked like this right here, and some people said yes, sure, why. Gately checked the fridge and again saw
evidence that his special meatloaf had a secret admirer, it looked like, another big rectangle cut out of the leftovers he'd carefully
wrapped and laid out on the sturdiest shelf in there. McDade, who Gately struggles daily with the urge to hit McDade so hard
there'd be nothing but eyes and a nose down over the tops of his cowboy boots, McDade's telling everybody he's constructing a
Gratitude List at Calvin T.'s tough-love suggestion and he says he's decided one of the things he's grateful for is his nose don't
look like this here. Gately tries not to judge on the basis of who laughs and who doesn't. When Pat's phone rings and Gately
leaves, McDade's squunching his upper lip up in his hand and asking people about acquaintance with cleft palates.
     Gately has to monitor the like emotional barometer in the House and put a wet finger to the wind for potential conflicts and
issues and rumors. A subtle art here is maintaining access to the residents' gossip-grapevine and keeping on top of rumors without
seeming like you're inducing a resident to cross the line and actually eat cheese on another resident. The only thing a resident is
actually encouraged to rat out another resident on here is picking up a Substance. All other-type issues it's supposed to be Staff's
job to glean and ferret out etc., to decoct legitimate infractions out of the tides of innuendo and bullshit complaint 20+ bored
crammed-together street-canny people in detox from wrecked lives can generate. Rumors that so-and-so blew so-and-so on the
couch at 0300, that thus-and-such's got a knife, that X was using what had to be some kind of code on the pay phone, that Y's gone
back to carrying a beeper, that so-and-so's making book on football out of the 5-Man room, that Belbin had led Diehl to believe
she'd clean up if he made Krispie Treats and then she weaseled out, and etc. Almost all of it's picayune and, over time, as it
accretes, unpleasant.

