

      'Now you're not on your side anymore, Hal, I can see. When you're on your back you don't have a shadow.'
      '...'
      'Hey Hal?'
      'Yes, Mario.'
      'I'm sorry if you're sad, Hal. You seem sad.'
      'I smoke high-resin Bob Hope in secret by myself down in the Pump Room off the secondary maintenance tunnel. I use
Visine and mint toothpaste and shower with Irish Spring to hide it from almost everyone. Only Pemulis knows the true extent.'
      '...'
      'I'm not the one C.T. and the Moms want gone. I'm not the one they suspect. Pemulis publicly dosed his opponent at Port
Washington. It was impossible to miss. The kid was a devout Mormon. The dose was impossible to miss. Sales of Visine bottles
of pre-adolescent urine during quarterly tests have been noted, it turns out, and classed as a Pemulis production.'
      'Selling Visine bottles?'
      'I'd be immune to expulsion anyway, obviously, as the Moms's relative. But I'm suspected of nothing other than ill-considered
moral paralysis out there on I. Day. My urine and Axhandle's urine are just to establish a context of objectivity for Pemulis's urine.
It's Pemulis they want. I'm almost positive they're going to give Pemulis the Shoe by the end of the term. I don't know whether
Pemulis knows this or not.'
      'Hey Hal?'
      'Normally they're after steroids, endocrine synthetics, mild 'drines, when they test. The O.N.A.N.T.A. guy gave indications
this one'll be a full-spectrum scan. Gas chromatography followed by electron-bombardment, with spectrometer readings on the
resultant mass-fragments. The real McCoy. The kind the Show uses.'
      'Hey Hal?'
      'Mike stands there and says what if hypothetically somebody was downwind from substances and got exposed and so on.
Claimed vague memories of a poppy-seed bagel. Not at all Pemulis's normal rococo type of lie. This one had a kind of weary
earnestness. The guy in the blazer said he'd go ahead and give us thirty days before a full-spectrum scan. Mike had pointed out
that there was an enormous lady from Moment due to arrive and snuffle around, making it a really unfortunate time for any
outside-chance inadvertent scandals for anybody. It was like the guy needed hardly any prodding to give us time to clean out the
system. O.N.A.N.T.A. doesn't want to catch anybody, really. Good clean fun and so on and so forth.'
      '...'
      'The ingenious layer to the lie was that the guy thought the thirty days' grace was for Pemulis. That it was what Pemulis
needed. Pemulis could pass a urine test hanging upside down in a high wind. Guy watching or not. He has a whole unpleasant
catheterization technique you don't want to hear about. He's checked it. And Tenuates are apparently the Indy-type car of 'drines,
he says; his own urine can be all innocent and pale with two days'
      warning, as long as he stays off the Bob.'
      '...'
      'Booboo, the thirty days was actually for me, and Mike let me stand there with my Unit out and not say anything while he
sold the urologist land and magazine subscriptions and Ginsu knives. He did it for me, and I'm not even the one they want.'
      'You can tell me whatever you said.'
      'What I do in secret, Boo, Mike says no more than thirty days to get it all out for sure. Cranberry juice, Calli tea, vinegar in
water. Plus or minus a couple days. The Bob Hope I smoke and hide, Boo, it's fat-soluble. It stays in there, in the body's fat.'
      'Mrs. Clarke told Bridget the human brain is high in fat, Bridget said.'
      'Mario, if I get caught. If I come up dirty-urined in front of O.N.A.N.T.A., what could C.T. do? It's not just that I'd lose my
even year in 18's. He'd have to give me the Shoe if he'd brought O.N.A.N.T.A. into it. And what about Himself's memory? I'm
directly related to Himself. Not to mention Orin. And meanwhile here's this Moment lady lumbering around looking for family
linen.'
      'Troeltsch says she all she wants to do is soften Orin's profile.'
      'The hideous thing is how brightly it'd come out, if I flunk a urine.
      E.T.A.'ll be publicly hurt. Hence Himself's memory, hence Himself.'
      '...'
      'And it'd kill the Moms, Mario. It'd be a terrible kertwang on the Moms. Not so much the Hope. The secrecy of it. That I hid it
from her. That she'll feel I had to hide it from her.'
      'Hey Hal?'
      'Something terrible will happen if she finds out I hid it from her.'
      'Thirty days is one calendar month of Calli tea and juice, you're saying.'
      'Of tea and vinegar and total abstinence. Of no substances whatsoever. Of abrupt and total withdrawal while I try to justify my
seed at the WhataBurger and maybe get offered up to Wayne at the Fundraiser. And then your birthday in two weeks.'
      'Hey Hal?'
      'Jesus and then the SAT's in December, I'll have to finish prepping for the Boards and then take the Boards while still in
abrupt withdrawal.'
      'You'll get a perfect score. Everybody's betting you get a perfect score. I've heard them.'
      'Marvelous. That's just exactly what I need to hear.'
      'Hey Hal?'
      'And of course you're hurt, Boo, that I've tried to hide all of it from you.'
      'I'm zero percent hurt, Hal.'
      'And of course you're wondering why I didn't just tell you when of course you knew anyway, knew something, the times
hanging upside-down in the weight room with a forehead Lyle didn't even want to get near. You sitting there letting me say I was
just really really tired and nightmare-ridden.'
      'I feel like you always tell me the truth. You tell me when it's right to.'
      'Marvelous.'
      'I feel like you're the only one who knows when it's right to tell. I can't know for you, so why should I be hurt.'
      'Be a fucking human being for once, Boo. I room with you and I hid it from you and let you worry and be hurt that I was
trying to hide it.'
      'I wasn't hurt. I don't want you to be sad.'
      'You can get hurt and mad at people, Boo. News-flash at almost fucking nineteen, kid. It's called being a person. You can get
mad at somebody and it doesn't mean they'll go away. You don't have to put on a Moms-act of total trust and forgiveness. One
liar's enough.'
      'You're scared your pee might still flunk after one calendar month.'
      'Jesus it's like talking to a big poster of some smily-faced guy. Are you in there?'
      'And you can't use a Visine bottle of pee because the man will be right there looking at your penis, and Trevor and Pemulis's
penises.'
      'The sun's thinking about coming up in the window. You can see it.'
      'It's been like forty hours without Bob Hope and already I'm bats inside and I can't sleep without more of the horror-show
dreams. I feel like I'm stuck halfway down a chimney.'
      'You beat Ortho, and your toothache's gone.'
      Temulis and Axhandle say a month'll be tit. Pemulis's only concern is is this DMZ he got for the WhataBurger detectable. He
goes to the library and pores. He's fully alert and functional. <endnote>321</endnote> It seems different with me, Boo. I feel a hole. It's going to be a
huge hole, in a month. A way more than Hal-sized hole.'
     'So what do you think you should do?'
     'And the hole's going to get a little bigger every day until I fly apart in different directions. I'll fly apart in midair. I'll fly apart
in the Lung, or at Tucson at 200 degrees in front of all these people who knew Himself and think I'm different. Whom I've lied to,
and liked it. It'll all come out anyway, clean pee or no.'
     'Hey Hal?'
     'And it'll kill her. I know it will. It will kill her dead, Booboo, I'm afraid.'
     'Hey Hal? What are you going to do?'
     '...'
     'Hal?'
     'Booboo, I'm up on my elbow again. Tell me what you think I should do.' 'Me tell you?'
     'I'm just two big aprick ears right here, Boo. Listening. Because I do not know what to do.'
     'Hal, if I tell you the truth, will you get mad and tell me be a fucking?'
     'I trust you. You're smart, Boo.'
     Then Hal?'
     'Tell me what I should do.'
     'I think you just did it. What you should do. I think you just did.'
     '...'
     'Do you see what I mean?'

