

     So and but that night's next A.M.'d found Gately and Fackelmann still there in Fackelmann's little corner, belts around their
arms, arms and noses red from scratching, still at it, the ingestion, on a hell of a tear, cooking up and getting off and eating
M&M's when they could find their mouths with their hands, moving like men deep under water, heads wobbling on strengthless
necks, the empty room's ceiling sky-blue and bulging and under it hanging on the wall overhead to their right the apartment's
upscale TP's viewer on a recursive slo-mo loop of some creepy thing Fackelmann liked that was just serial shots of flames from
brass lighters, kitchen-matches, pilot lights, birthday candles, votive candles, pillar candles, birch shavings, Bunsen burners, etc.,
that Fackelmann had got from Kite, who just before dawn had come out dressed and declined to get high with them and coughed
nervously and announced he had to leave for a few days or more for a 'totally key' and unmissable software trade-show in a
different area code, not knowing Gately now knew he knew Fackelmann already to be dead, w/ Kite then trying to leave discreetly
with every piece of hardware he owned in his arms, including the nonportable D.E.C., trailing cables. Then a bit later, as the A.M.
light intensified yellowly and made both Gately and Fackelmann curse the fact that the curtains had been stripped and pawned, as
they continued to hunch and cook and shoot, at maybe O83Oh. Pamela Hoffman-Jeep was up and vomiting briskly and applying
mousse against the workaday day, calling Gately Honey and her Night Errand and asking if she'd done anything last night she'd
have to explain to anybody today -- kind of an a.m. routine in their relationship -- applying blush and drinking her standard anti-
hangover breakfast <endnote>377</endnote> and watching Gately and Fackel-mann's chins fall and rise at slightly different underwater rates. The
smell of her perfume and high-retsin mints hung in the bare room long after she'd bid them both Ciao Bello. As the A.M. sun got
higher and intolerable, instead of taking action and nailing a blanket or something over the window they opted instead to obliterate
the reality of the eye-scalding light and began truly bingeing on Blues, flirting with an O. D. They scaled Fackelmann's Mt.
Dilaudid at a terrible clip. Fackelmann was by nature a binger. Gately was typically more like a maintenance user. He rarely went
on a classic-type binge, which meant plunking down in one place with an enormous stash and getting loaded over and over again
for long periods without moving. But when he did start a binge he might as well have been strapped to the snout of a missile for
all the control he had over length or momentum. Fackelmann was having at the mountain of 10-mg. Blues like there was no
tomorrow. Every time Gately even started to bring up the issue of how Faxter had come by such a huge blue haul of the Substance
-- trying maybe to invite Fackelmann to confront the reality of his trouble by describing it, like -- Fackelmann would cut him off
with a soft 'That's a goddamn lie.' This was pretty much all Fackelmann would ever say, when loaded, even in response to things
like questions. You have to picture all the binge's verbal exchanges as occurring like very slowly, oddly distended, as if the time
were honey:
     'Serious fucking stash you managed to come by somehow right here, Fa--'
     'That's a goddamn lie.'
     'Man. Man. I just hope Gwendine or C's got the phone today out there, man. Instead of Whitey. No business getting done out
of here today I don't thi--'
     "s a goddamn he.'
     'That's for sure, Fax.'
     "s a goddamn lie.'
     'Fax. The Faxter. Count Faxula.'
     'Goddamn lie.'
     After a while in all the distension it got to be like a joke. Gately would haul his big head upright and try to allege the
roundness of the planet, the three-dimensionality of the phenomenal world, the blackness of all black dogs --
     "s a goddamn lie.'
     They found it increasingly funny. After every exchange like this they laughed and laughed. Each exhalation of laughter
seemed to take several minutes. The ceiling and the window's light receded. Fackelmann wet his pants; this was even funnier.
They watched the pool of urine spread out against the hardwood floor, changing shape, growing curved arms, exploring the fine
oak floor. The rises and valleys and little seams. It might of gotten later and then early A.M. again. The entertainment cartridge's
myriad small flames were reflected in the spreading puddle, so that soon Gately could watch without taking his chin off his chest.
     When the phone rang it was just a fact. The ringing was like an environment, not a signal. The fact of its ringing got more and
more abstract. Whatever a ringing phone might signify was like totally overwhelmed by the overwhelming fact of its ringing.
Gately pointed this out to Fackelmann. Fackelmann vehemently denied it.
     At some point Gately tried to stand and was rudely assaulted by the floor, and wet his own pants.
     The phone rang and rang.
     At another point they got interested in rolling different colors of Peanut M&M's into the puddles of urine and watching the
colored dye corrode and leave a vampire-white football of M&M in a nimbus of bright dye.
     The intercom's buzzer to the luxury apartment complex's glass doors downstairs sounded, overwhelming both of them with
the fact of its sound. It buzzed and buzzed. They discussed wishing it would stop the way you discuss wishing it would stop
raining.
     It became the ICBM of binges. The Substance seemed inexhaustible; Mt. Dilaudid changed shapes but never really much
shrank that they could see. It was the first and only time ever that Gately I.V.'d narcotics so many times in one arm that he ran out
of arm-vein and had to switch to the other arm. Fackelmann was no longer coordinated enough to help him tie off and boot.
Fackelmann kept making a string of chocolaty drool appear and distend almost down to the floor. The acidity of their urine was
corroding the apt.'s hardwood floor's finish in an observable way. The puddle had grown many arms like a Hindu god. Gately
couldn't quite tell if the urine had explored its way almost back to their feet or if they were already sitting in urine. Fackel-mann
would see how close to the surface of the pond of their mixed piss he could get the tip of the string of spit before he sucked it back
up and in. The little game had an intoxicating aura of danger to it. The insight that most people like play-danger but don't like real-
life danger hit Gately like an epiphany. It took him gallons of viscous time to try and articulate the insight to Fackelmann so that
Fackelmann could give it the imprimatur of a denial.
     Eventually the buzzer stopped.
     The phrase 'More tattoos than teeth' also kept going through Gately's head as it bobbed (the head), even though he had no idea
where the phrase came from or who it was supposed to refer to. He hadn't been to Billerica Minimum yet; he was on bail that
Whitey Sorkin had bonded.
     The taste of the M&M's couldn't cut the weirdly sweet medical taste of hydromorphone in Gately's mouth. He watched an old
stovetop-burner's crown of blue flame shimmer in the shine of the urine.
     During a ruddled sunset-light period Fackelmann had had a small convulsion and a bowel movement in his pants and Gately
hadn't had the coordination to go to Fackelmann's side during the seizure, to help and just be there. He had the nightmarish feeling
that there was something crucial he had to do but had forgot what it was. 10-mg. injections of the Blue Bayou kept the feeling at
bay for shorter and shorter periods. He'd never heard of somebody having a convulsion from an O.D., and Fackelmann had indeed
seemed to bounce to his version of back.
     The sun outside the big windows seemed to go up and down like a yo-yo.
     They ran out of the distilled water Fackelmann had in the mixing bowl, and Fackelmann took a cotton and sopped up candy-
dyed urine off the floor and cooked up with urine. Gately appeared to himself to be repulsed by this. But there was no question of
trying to get to the stripped kitchen for the distilled-water bottle. Gately was tying off his right arm with his teeth, now, his left
was so useless.
     Fackelmann smelled very bad.
     Gately nodded out into a dream where he was on a Beverly-Needham bus whose sides said PARAGON BUS LINES: THE
GRAY LINE. In his stu-porous recall over four years later in St. E.'s he realizes that this bus is the bus from the dream that
wouldn't end and wouldn't go anywhere, but has the sickening realization that the connection between the two buses is itself a
dream, or is in a dream, and it's now that his fever returns to new heights and his line on the heart monitor gets a funny little hitch
like a serration at the 1st and 3rd nodes, which makes an amber light flash at the nurse's station down the hall.
     When the buzzer sounded again they were watching the flames-film late at night. Now poor old Pamela Hoffman-Jeep's voice
came to them through the intercom. The intercom and apt.-complex-front-doors-unlocker button were all the way across the living
room by the apartment door. The ceiling bulged and receded. Fackelmann had made his hand into the shape of a claw and was
studying the claw in the light of the TP's flames. Mt. Dilaudid was badly caved in on one side; a disastrous avalanche into Lake
Urine was a possibility. P.H.-J. sounded drunk as a Nuck. She said to let her in. She said she knew they were in there. She used
party as a verb several times. Fackelmann was whispering that it was a lie. Gately remembers he actually had to prod himself in
the bladder to feel if he had to go to the bathroom. His Unit felt small and icy cold against his leg in the wet jeans. The ammoniac
smell of urine and the breathing ceiling and drunk distant female voice ... Gately reached in the dark for the bars of his playpen,
grasped them with pudgy fists, hauled himself to his feet. His rising was more like the floor lowering. He wobbled like a toddler.
The apt. floor below him feinted right, left, circling for an opening to attack. The luxury windows hung with starlight. Fackelmann
had made his claw come alive into a spider and was letting the spider climb slowly down his chest-area. The starlight was smeary;
there were no distinct stars. Everything out of the line of fire of the cartridge-viewer was dark as a pocket. The buzzer sounded
angry and the voice pathetic. Gately put his foot out in the direction of the buzzer. He heard Fackelmann telling his hand's claw's
spider it was witnessing the birth of an empire. Then when Gately put his foot down there was nothing there. The floor dodged his
foot and rushed up at him. He caught a glimpse of bulged ceiling and then the floor caught him in the temple. His ears belled. The
impact of the floor against him shook the whole room. A box of laminates teetered and fell and fanned clear laminates all over the
wet floor. The viewer fell off the wall and cast ruddled flames on the ceiling. The floor jammed itself against Gately, pressing in
tight, and he grayed out with his scrunched face toward Fackelmann and the windows beyond, with Fackelmann holding the
spider out in mid-air at him for his inspection.

