

     AUTUMN -- YEAR OF DAIRY PRODUCTS FROM THE AMERICAN HEARTLAND
     Drug addicts driven to crime to finance their drug addiction are not often inclined toward violent crime. Violence requires all
different kinds of energy, and most drug addicts like to expend their energy not on their professional crime but on what their
professional crime lets them afford. Drug addicts are often burglars, therefore. One reason why the home of someone whose home
has been burglarized feels violated and unclean is that there have probably been drug addicts in there. Don Gately was a twenty-
seven-year-old oral narcotics addict (favoring Demerol and Talwin <endnote>12</endnote>), and a more or less professional burglar; and he was,
himself, unclean and violated. But he was a gifted burglar, when he burgled -- though the size of a young dinosaur, with a
massive and almost perfectly square head he used to amuse his friends when drunk by letting them open and close elevator doors
on, he was, at his professional zenith, smart, sneaky, quiet, quick, possessed of good taste and reliable transportation -- with a
kind of ferocious jolliness in his attitude toward his livelihood.
      As an active drug addict, Gately was distinguished by his ferocious and jolly elan. He kept his big square chin up and his
smile wide, but he bowed neither toward nor away from any man. He took zero in the way of shit and was a cheery but implacable
exponent of the Don't-Get-Mad-Get-Even school. Like for instance once, after he'd done a really unpleasant three-month bit in
Revere Holding on nothing more than a remorseless North Shore Assistant District Attorney's circumstantial suspicion, finally
getting out after 92 days when his P.D. got the charges dismissed on a right-to-speedy brief, Gately and a trusted associate <endnote>13</endnote>
paid a semiprofessional visit to the private home of this Assistant D.A. whose zeal and warrant had cost Gately a nasty impromptu
detox on the floor of his little holding-cell. Also a believer in the Revenge-Is-Tastier-Chilled dictum, Gately had waited patiently
until the 'Eye On People' section of the Globe mentioned the A.D.A. and his wife's presence at some celebrity charity sailing thing
out in Mar-blehead. Gately and the associate went that night to the A.D.A.'s private home in the upscale Wonderland Valley
section of Revere, killed the power to the home with a straight shunt in the meter's inflow, then clipped just the ground wire on the
home's pricey HBT alarm, so that the alarm'd sound after ten or so minutes and create the impression that the perps had somehow
bungled the alarm and been scared off in the middle of the act. Later that night, when Revere's and Marblehead's Finest
summoned them home, the A.D.A. and his wife found themselves minus a coin collection and two antique shotguns and nothing
more. Quite a few other valuables were stacked on the floor of the living room off the foyer like the perps hadn't had time to get
them out of the house. Everything else in the burglarized home looked undisturbed. The A.D.A. was a jaded pro: he walked
around touching the brim of his hat <endnote>14</endnote> and reconstructed probable events: the perps looked like they'd bungled disabling the
alarm all the way and had got scared off by the thing's siren when the alarm's pricey HBT alternate ground kicked in at 300 v. The
A.D.A. soothed his wife's sense of violation and uncleanliness. He calmly insisted on sleeping there in their home that very night;
no hotel: it was like crucial to get right back on the emotional horse, in cases like this, he insisted. And then the next day the
A.D.A. worked out the insurance and reported the shotguns to a buddy at A.T.F. <endnote>15</endnote> and his wife calmed down and life went on.
      About a month later, an envelope arrived in the A.D.A.'s home's exquisite wrought-iron mailbox. In the envelope were a
standard American Dental Association glossy brochure on the importance of daily oral hygiene -- available at like any dentist's
office anywhere -- and two high-pixel Polaroid snapshots, one of big Don Gately and one of his associate, each in a Halloween
mask denoting a clown's great good professional cheer, each with his pants down and bent over and each with the enhanced-focus
handle of one of the couple's toothbrushes protruding from his bottom.
      Don Gately had sense enough never to work the North Shore again after that. But he ended up in hideous trouble anyway,
A.D.A.-wise. It was either bad luck or kismet or so forth. It was because of a cold, a plain old human rhinovirus. And not even
Don Gately's cold, is what made him finally stop and question his kismet.
      The thing started out looking like tit on a tray, burglary-wise. A beautiful neo-Georgian home in a wildly upscale part of
Brookline was set nicely back from an unlit pseudo-rural road, had a chintzy SentryCo alarm system that fed, idiotically enough,
on a whole separate 330 v AC 90 Hz cable with its own meter, didn't seem to be on anything like a regular P.M.-patrol route, and
had, at its rear, flimsily tasteful French doors surrounded by dense and thorn-free deciduous shrubbery and blocked off from the
garage's halogen floods by a private E.W.D.-issue upscale dumpster. It was in short a real cock-tease of a home, burglary-wise, for
a drug addict. And Don Gately straight-shunted the alarm's meter and, with an associate, <endnote>16</endnote> broke and entered and crept around
on huge cat feet.
      Except unfortunately the owner of the house turned out to be still home, even though both of his cars and the rest of his
family were gone. The little guy was asleep sick in bed upstairs in acetate pajamas with a hot water bottle on his chest and half a
glass of OJ and a bottle of NyQuil <endnote>17</endnote> and a foreign book and copies of International Affairs and Interdependent Affairs and a
pair of thick specs and an industrial-size box of Kleenex on the bedside table and an empty vaporizer barely humming at the foot
of the bed, and the guy was to say the least nonplussed to wake up and see high-filter flashlights crisscrossing over the unlit
bedroom walls and bureau and teak chiffonnier as Gately and associate scanned for a wall-safe, which surprisingly like 90% of
people with wall-safes conceal in their master bedroom behind some sort of land- or seascape painting. People turned out so
identical in certain root domestic particulars it made Gately feel strange sometimes, like he was in possession of certain overlarge
private facts to which no man should be entitled. Gately had a way stickier conscience about the possession of some of these large
particular facts than he did about making off with other people's personal merchandise. But then all of a sudden in mid-silent-
search for a safe here's this upscale homeowner turning out to be home with a nasty head-cold while his family's out on a two-car
foliage-tour in what's left of the Berkshires, writhing groggily and Ny-Quilized around on the bed and making honking adenoidal
sounds and asking what in bloody hell is the meaning of this, except he's saying it in Québecois French, which means to these
thuggish U.S. drug addicts in Halloween-clowns' masks exactly nothing, he's sitting up in bed, a little and older-type homeowner
with a football-shaped head and gray van Dyke and eyes you can tell are used to corrective lenses as he switches on the bright
bedside lamp. Gately could easily have screwed out of there and never looked back; but here indeed, in the lamplight, is a
seascape over next to the chiffonnier, and the associate has a quick peek and reports that the safe behind it is to laugh at, it can be
opened with harsh language, almost; and oral narcotics addicts tend to operate on an extremely rigid physical schedule of need and
satisfaction, and Gately is at this moment firmly in the need part of the schedule; and so D. W. Gately disastrously decides to go
ahead and allow a nonviolent burglary to become in effect a robbery -- which the operative legal difference involves either
violence or the coercive threat of same -- and Gately draws himself up to his full menacing height and shines his flashlight in the
little homeowner's rheumy eyes and addresses him the way menacing criminals speak in popular entertainment -- d's for th's, var-
ious apocopes, and so on -- and takes hold of the guy's ear and conducts him down to a kitchen chair and binds his arms and legs
to the chair with electrical cords neatly clipped from refrigerator and can-opener and M. Cafe-brand Automatic Café-au-Lait-
Maker, binds him just short of gan-grenously tight, because he's hoping the Berkshire foliage is prime and the guy's going to be
soloing in this chair for a good stretch of time, and Gately starts looking through the kitchen's drawers for the silverware -- not
the good-silver-for-company silverware; that was in a calfskin case underneath some neatly folded old spare Christmas wrapping
in a stunning hardwood-with-ivory-inlay chest of drawers in the living room, where over 90% of upscale people's good silver is
always hidden, and has already been promoted and is piled <endnote>18</endnote> just off the foyer -- but just the regular old everyday flatware
silverware, because the vast bulk of homeowners keep their dish towels two drawers below their everyday-silverware drawer, and
God's made no better call-for-help-stifling gag in the world than a good old oily-smelling fake-linen dish towel; and the bound guy
in the cords on the chair suddenly snaps to the implications of what Gately's looking for and is struggling and saying: Do not gag
me, I have a terrible cold, my nose she is a brick of the snot, I have not the power to breathe through the nose, for the love of God
please do not gag my mouth; and as a gesture of goodwill the homeowner tells Gately, who's rummaging, the combination of the
bedroom's seascape safe, except in French numbers, which together with the honking adenoidal inflection the guy's grippe gives
his speech doesn't even sound like human speech to Gately, and but also the guy tells Gately there are some antique pre-British-
takeover Québecois gold coins in a calfskin purse taped to the back of an undistinguished Impressionist landscape in the living
room. But everything the Canadian homeowner says means no more to poor old Don Gately, whistling a jolly tune and trying to
look menacing in his clown's mask, than the cries of, say, North Shore gulls or inland grackles; and sure enough the towels are
two drawers under the spoons, and here comes Gately across the kitchen looking like a sort of Bozo from hell, and the Québecer
guy's mouth goes oval with horror, and into that mouth goes a balled-up, faintly greasy-smelling kitchen towel, and across the
guy's cheeks and over the dome of protruding linen goes some fine-quality fibrous strapping tape from the drawer under the
decommissioned phone -- why does everybody keep the serious mailing supplies in the drawer nearest the kitchen phone? -- and
Don Gately and associate finish their swift and with-the-best-of-intentions nonviolent business of stripping the Brookline home as
bare as a post-feral-hamster meadow, and they relock the front door and hit the unlit road in Gately's reliable and double-
mufflered 4x4. And the bound, wheezing, acetate-clad Canadian -- the right-hand man to probably the most infamous anti-
O.N.A.N. organizer north of the Great Concavity, the lieutenant and trouble-shooting trusted adviser who selflessly volunteered to
move with his family to the savagely American area of metro Boston to act as liaison between and general leash-holder for the
half-dozen or so malevolent and mutually antagonistic groups of Québecer Separatists and Albertan ultra-rightists united only in
their fanatical conviction that the U.S.A.'s Experialistic 'gift' or 'return' of the so-calledly 'Reconfigured' Great Convexity to its
northern neighbor and O.N.A.N. ally constituted an intolerable blow to Canadian sovereignty, honor, and hygiene -- this
homeowner, unquestionably a V.I.P., although admittedly rather a covert V.I.P., or probably more accurately a 'P./.T.,' <endnote>19</endnote> in
French, this meek-looking Canadian-terrorism-coordinator -- bound to his chair, thoroughly gagged, sitting there, alone, under
cold fluorescent kitchen lights, <endnote>20</endnote> the rhinovirally afflicted man, gagged with skill and quality materials -- the guy, having
worked so hard to partially clear one clotted nasal passage that he tore intercostal ligaments in his ribs, soon found even that
pinprick of air blocked off by mucus's implacable lava-like flow once again, and so has to tear more ligaments trying to breach the
other nostril, and so on; and after an hour of struggle and flames in his chest and blood on his lips and the white kitchen towel
from trying frantically to tongue the towel out past the tape, which is quality tape, and after hopes skyrocketing when the doorbell
rings and then hopes blackly dashed when the person at the door, a young woman with a clipboard and chewing gum who's offer-
ing promotional coupons good for Happy Holidays discounts on memberships of six months or more at a string of Boston non-UV
tanning salons, shrugs in her parka and makes a mark on the clipboard and blithely retreats down the long driveway to the pseudo-
rural road, an hour of this or more, finally the Québecois P.I.T., after unspeakable agony -- slow suffocation, mucoidal or no,
being no day at the Montreal Tulip-Fest -- at the height of which agony, hearing his head's pulse as receding thunder and
watching his vision's circle shrink as a red aperture around his sight rotates steadily in from the edges, at the height of which he
could think only, despite the pain and panic, of what a truly dumb and silly way this was, after all this time, to die, a thought
which the towel and tape denied expression via the rueful grin with which the best men meet the dumbest ends -- this Guillaume
DuPlessis passed bluely from this life, and sat there, in the kitchen chair, 250 clicks due east of some really spectacular autumn
foliage, for almost two nights and days, his posture getting more and more military as rigor mortis set in, with his bare feet
looking like purple loaves of bread, from the lividity; and when Brookline's Finest were finally summoned and got him unbound
from the coldly lit chair, they had to carry him out as if he were still seated, so militarily comme-il-faut had his limbs and spine
hardened. And poor old Don Gately, whose professional habit of killing power with straight shunts to a meter's inflow was pretty
much a signature M.O., and who had, of course, a special place in the heart of a remorseless Revere A.D.A. with judicial clout
throughout Boston's three counties and beyond, an of course particularly remorseless A.D.A., as of late, whose wife now needed
Valium even just to floss, and was patiently awaiting his chance, the A.D.A. was, coldly biding his time, being a patient Get-Even
and Cold-Dish man just like Don Gately, who was, through no will to energy-consuming violence on his part, in the sort of a hell
of a deep-shit mess that can turn a man's life right around.

