

     14 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     After so long not caring, and then now the caring crashes back in and turns so easily into obsessive worry, in sobriety. A few
days before the debacle in which Don Gately got hurt, Joelle had begun to worry obsessively about her teeth. Smoking 'base
cocaine eats teeth, corrodes teeth, attacks the enamel directly. Chandler Foss had explained all this to her at supper, showing her
his corroded stumps. In her Latin cloth purse now she carried a traveller's brush and expensive toothpaste with alleged enamel-
revitalizers and anti-corrosives. Several of the Ennet House residents who'd hit bottom with the glass pipe had no teeth or
blackened and disintegrating teeth; the sight of Wade McDade's or Chandler Foss's teeth gave Joelle the fantods like nothing at
meetings could. The toothpaste was only recently available over the counter and was a whole level of power and expense above
standard smoker's polish.
     As she lies on her side beside Kate Gompert's empty bunk, her veil's selvage tucked secure between pillow and jaw, and
Charlotte Treat also asleep across the lit room, Joelle dreams that Don Gately, unhurt and mid-South-accented, is ministering to
her teeth. He is bibbed in dental white, humming softly to himself, his big hands deft as he plucks instruments from the gleaming
chair-side tray. Her chair is dental and canted back, yielding her face up to him, her legs shut tight and stretching up and out
before her. Dr. Don's eyes are abstractly kind, concerned for her teeth; and his thick fingers, as he inserts things to hold her open,
are gloveless and taste warm and clean. Even the light seems sterilely clean. There is no assistant; the dentist is solo, leaning in
above her, humming absent chords as he probes. His head is massive and vaguely square. In the dream she is concerned for her
teeth and feels Gately shares her concern. She feels good that he makes no chitchat and probably doesn't know her name. There's
very little eye-contact. He is completely intent on her teeth. He is there to help if possible, is his whole demeanor's message. His
bib hangs by a necklace of tiny steel balls and could not be whiter, his head haloed with a strap and a polished metal disk attached
to the strap just above his eyes, a tiny mirror of stainless steel, clean as the instruments' tray; and the dream's yielding and trustful
quality of calm is undercut only by the view of her face in the halo's mirror, the disk like a third eye in Gately's broad clean
forehead: because she can see her face, convexly distorted and ravaged by years of cocaine and not caring, her face all bug-eyes
and sunken cheeks, lampblack-smudges beneath the pop-eyes; and as the dentist's warm thick fingers gently draw her lips back
she looks up into his head's mirror at long rows of all canine teeth, tapered and sharp, with then more rows of canines behind
them, in reserve. The countless rows of the teeth are all sharp and strong and unblackened but tinged at the tips with an odd kind
of red, as of old blood, the teeth of a creature that carelessly tears at meat. These are teeth that have been up to things she hasn't
known about, she tries to say around the fingers. The dentist hums, probing. In the dream Joelle looks up into Don Gately's
forehead's dental mirror's disk and is seized with a fear of her teeth, a terror, and as her spread mouth spreads farther to cry out in
fear all she can see in the little round mirror are endless red-stained rows of teeth leading back and away down a pitch-black pipe,
and the image of all these rows of teeth in the disk blots out the big dentist's good face as he probes with a hook and says he
assures her that these can be saved.

