

      PARTIAL TRANSCRIPT OF WEATHER-DELAYED MEETING
      BETWEEN:
      (1) MR. RODNEY TINE SR., CHIEF OF UNSPECIFIED SERVICES & WHITE HOUSE ADVISER
      ON INTERDEPENDENT RELATIONS; (2) MS.
      MAUREEN HOOLEY, VICE-PRESIDENT FOR CHILDREN'S
      ENTERTAINMENT, INTERLACE TELENTERTAINMENT, INC.; (3) MR. CARL E. ('BUSTER') YEE, DIRECTOR OF
MARKETING AND PRODUCT-PERCEPTION, GLAD FLACCID RECEPTACLE
      CORPORATION; (4) MR. R. TINE JR., DEPUTY REGIONAL COORDINATOR, U.S. OFFICE OF UNSPECIFIED
SERVICES; AND (5) MR. P. TOM VEALS, VINEY AND VEALS ADVERTISING, UNLTD.
      8TH FLOOR STATE HOUSE ANNEX BOSTON MA, U.S.A
      20 NOVEMBER -- YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT
      UNDERGARMENT
      mr. tine sr.: Tom. Buster. Mo.
      mr. veals: R. the G.
      mr. yee: Rod.
      mr. tine sr.: Guys.
      mr. tine jr.: Afternoon, Chief!
      mr. tine sr.: Mmmph.
      Ms. HooLEY: Glad you could finally get in, Rod. May I say we're all extremely excited, on our end.
      mr. tine sr.: Never seen snow like this. Any of you ever seen snow remotely approaching anything like this?
      mr. veals: [Sneezes.] Fucking town.
      mr. yee: Like an extra dimension out there. Less an element than its own dimension.
      someone: [Shoe makes a squelching noise under the table.]
      mr. yee: With its own rules, laws. Awe-inspiring. Fearsome.
      MR. veals: Cold. Wet. Deep. Slippery. More like.
      mr. tine jr.: [Tapping the edge of a ruler against the tabletop.] Their limo in from Logan did a 180 on Storrow. Mr. Yee was
just telling --
      mr. tine sr.: [Tapping a telescoping weatherman's pointer against the edge of the tabletop.] So what's the poop. The skinny.
What are we talking.
      Ms. hooley: Spot ready for previewing. We need your go. I'm in from Phoenix via New New York.
      mr. YEE: I'm in from Ohio. Choppered up from NNY with Mo here.
      Ms. hooley: Spot's master's in the post-production lab down at V&V. All ready except for some final bugs with the matteing.
      mr. veals: Maureen says we need you and Buster's green light to disseminate.
      Ms. hooley: You and the titular sponsor here green-light it, we can have disseminatable product by the end of the weekend.
      mr. veals: [Sneezes.] Assuming this fucking snow doesn't shut down our power.
     mr. tine sr.: [Motioning with weatherman's pointer to U.S.O. stenographer to transcribe verbatim.] Seen it yet, Buster?
     mr. yee: Negative, Rod. Just in with these folks here. Kennedy completely socked in. Mo had to charter a chopper. I'm sitting
here cherry.
     mr. tine jr.: [Tapping edge of ruler on tabletop.] How'd you fare getting up here, Sir, if I may?
     mr. tine sr.: Mountain comes to Mohammed, eh Tom?
     mr. veals: How come I only came two clicks down here and I'm the one with a fucking cold?
     mr. tine jr.: I've been here in Boston as well.
     mr. veals: [Checking connections on Infernatron 210-Y Digital Player and Viewer System.] So shall we?
     mr. tine sr.: OK, for the record. Mo. Demographic target?
     Ms. HOOLEY: Ages six to ten, with marginally reduced efficacy four to six and ten to thirteen. Let's say target's four to
twelve, white, native English-speaking, median income and above, capacity on Kruger Abstraction Scale three or above. [Refers
to notes.] Advertable attention-span of sixteen seconds with a geometric fall-off commencing at thirteen seconds.
     mr. tine sr.: Spot-length?
     Ms. hooley: Thirty seconds with a traumatic graphic at fourteen seconds.
     mr. veals: [Hawks phlegm.]
     mr. yee: Proposed insertion-vehicle, Mo?
     Ms. hooley: The 'Mr. Bouncety-Bounce Show,' spontaneous dissemination at 1600 M to F. 1500 Central and Mountain.
Cream of the crop. 82 Share on spontaneous receptions for the slot.
     mr. yee: Any data on what percentage of total viewing in the slot is Spontaneous versus Recorded cartridge?
     Ms. HOOLEY: We had 47% plus or minus two as of Year of the Yushityu 2007. That's the last year the data's firmed up for.
     mr. tine sr.: So say 40% of total viewing for the spot.
     mr. yee: Give or take. Impressive.
     mr. tine sr.: So check, check, check. We got rough costs?
     mr. YEE: Production just over half a meg. Post-production --
     mr. veals: Bupkus. 150K before matteing.
     mr. yee: I might add that Tom's pro-bonoing his part of the production.
     mr. veals: So you all ready to eyeball this or what?
     Ms. hooley: Since 'Mr. B-B' 's contracted as a no-public-service-spot vehicle, dissemination charge'11 come out around 18
OK per slot.
     mr. YEE: Which we're still of the position this seems a bit steep.
     mr. tine jr.: The upcoming year's Glad's year, Buster. You wanted the year. You want the Year of Glad to be the year half the
nation stopped doing anything but staring bug-eyed at some sinister cartridge while little whorls went around in their eyes until
they died of starvation in the middle of their own exc--?
     mr. tine sr.: Shut up, Rodney. And quit with the ruler-tapping. Buster I'm sure knows the incredible good will that's even now
accruing from their proud sponsorship of probably the most important public-service spots ever conceived, given the potential
threat here.
     mr. veals: [Sneezes twice in abrupt succession.] [Comment unintelligible.]
     mr. tine sr.: [Taps telescoping weatherman's pointer on edge of table-top.] Righto then. The spot itself, then. The spokesfigure
icon thing. Still the singing Kleenex?
     mr. yee: The what-was-it, Frankie the No-Thankee Hankie, warning kids to say No Thankee to unlabelled or suspicious
cartridges?
     Ms. HOOLEY: [Clears throat.] Tom?
     mr. tine jr.: [Taps ruler on edge of tabletop.]
     mr. veals: [Hawks.] No. Had to shit-can the dancing Kleenex after the response groups' test data were analyzed. Various
problems. The phrase 'No Thankee' itself perceived as archaic. Uncool. Crotchety-adult. Too New England or something.
Summoned images of a leathery-faced old guy in overalls. Took attention away from what they're supposed to say No Thanks to.
Plus phrase-recognition data was way under minimum slogan-parameters.
     Ms. hooley: Problems with the icon itself.
     mr. veals: [Blowing nose one nostril at a time.] Kids hated Frankie the Hankie. We're talking levels past ambivalence.
Associated the hankie with snot, basically. The word booger kept coming up. The singing didn't help.
     Ms. hooley: Which is why in this case thank God for response-group testing.
     mr. yee: This business'll make you old.
     mr. veals: Had to go back and completely reboot at square one.
     mr. yee: Does anyone else smell a peculiar citrusy floral odor?
     Ms. hooley: Tom's boys've been at it twenty-four/seven. We're extremely excited at the result.
     mr. veals: It's previewable but rough. Not really quite there yet. The first Phil's digitals had a bug.
     mr. tine jr.: Phil?
     mr. veals: A small bug, but nasty. Dregs of a turbovirus in the graphic encoder. Phil's head kept detaching and floating off to
the upper right. Not a good effect at all, given the message we want to send.
     mr. yee: Like orange blossoms, but with a kind of sick sweetness.
     Ms. HOOLEY: Oh dear.
     mr. veals: [Sneezes.] And debugging put us behind on some of the fonts, so you're going to have to use some imagination
here. Has this 210 unit been downloaded for schematic matteing?
     mr. tine jr.: Excuse me. Phil?
     mr. veals: Introducing Fully Functional Phil, the prancing ass.
     Ms. hooley: More like a mule, a burro. A burro.
     mr. tine jr.: [Tapping like mad.] An ass?
     Ms. hooley: Horse-characters were copyrighted by ChildSearch. Their 'Patch the Pony Who Says Nay to Strangers' spots.
     mr. tine jr.: A prancing ass?
     Ms. hooley: The perception of naïveté and clumsiness about a mule-icon provoked a kind of empathy in the response groups.
Phil's not coming off as an authority-figure-joy-killer type. More like a peer. So the cartridge he warns against gets none of the
forbidden-fruit-type boost of being warned against by an authority figure.
     mr. veals: Plus the kid market's a frigging horror show. Near every species was copyrighted. Garfield. McGruff the freaking
crime dog. Toucan Sam. The O.N.A.N. bird of prey. Let's not even get into the bears or bunnies. It was basically either an ass or a
cockroach. Never again the kid's market as God is my witness. [Sneezes.]
     Ms. hooley: Once we went with the burro, Tom opted to accentuate the clumsy-incompetence factor. To almost ironize the
icon. Buck teeth, crossed eyes --
     mr. veals: Extravagantly crossed. Like he's just been whacked with a sock full of nickels. Eye-response was through the roof.
     Ms. hooley: Ears that won't stay upright. Legs keep getting all rubbery and tangled when he tries to prance.
     mr. veals: But prance he does.
     mr. yee: But surely it doesn't present itself as an ass. Surely it doesn't prance out and say, 'Take it from me, an ass.'
     mr. veals: A fully functional ass.
     Ms. hooley: Tom's rather ingeniously played up the functionality angle. The energy and verve versus passivity angle. He's
never just Phil. He's Fully Functional Phil. He's a blur of kid-type activity -- school, playing, teleputer-interfacing, prancing.
Tom's got him storyboarded for a number of thirty-second activity-packed little adventures. He's a goof, an iconic child, but he's
active. He stands for the attraction of capacity, agency, choice. As versus the spot's animated adult who we see in a recliner
ostensibly watching the Canadian cartridge, little spirals going around and around in his eyes as his body sort of melts and his
head starts growing and distending until the passive watching adult's image is just a huge five-o'clock-shadowed head in the
recliner, his eyeballs huge and whirling.
     mr. tine jr.: [Taps his ruler against the edge of the tabletop.j
     mr. veals: Let's just roll the thing for them, Mo.
     mr. tine sr.: I've got to say I foresee trouble selling a certain Commander in Chief on a prancing ass as an improvement over a
singing Kleenex.
     Ms. hooley: Phil's message is that not every entertainment cartridge out there is necessarily a good old safe pre-approved
InterLace TelEnter-tainment product. He says word's reached him during his fun-filled fully functional daily activities of a certain
very wicked and sneaky cartridge that even has a little smiling face on the case and when you first start watching it looks like it
promises to be more fun to watch than anything you've ever wished on a star or blown out a birthday-cake candle for. In a
thought-bubble that becomes visible when Phil's ears flop down again --
     mr. veals: [Sneezes.] Not yet matted in all the way --
     mr. tine sr.: You know how he is about Kleenex.
     Ms. hooley: -- will be an image of an iconic cartridge case with a friendly smile and pudgy little harmless Pillsbury
Doughboy arms and legs.
     mr. yee: [Loosening his collar.] Not the actual copyrighted Pillsbury iconic-limb animation-codes, though.
     mr. veals: Relax. More like a reference. An allusion to plumpness, cute-ness. Pudgy and harmless-looking limbs, is the thing.
     mr. tine jr.: [Tapping edge of tabletop with ruler.]
     mr. tine sr.: [Pointing at tapping ruler with weatherman's pointer.] You're close to losing that hand, bucko.
     Ms. hooley: [Referring to notes.] Then Phil looks up and pops the thought-bubble with a needle and says But it's a liar, this
smiling cartridge is, a wicked thing, lying, like the stranger who leans out of his car and offers you a ride home to your Mommy
and Daddy but really wants to grab you and put his sweaty hand over your mouth and lock you in the car and take you far away
with him to where you'll never see your Mommy, Daddy, or Mr. Bouncety-Bounce ever again.
     mr. veals: Which and here's the traumatic graphic at fourteen, a dark-bordered new thought-bubble over Phil in which now
the cartridge's limbs are like a dockworker's, it's a swart leering cartridge with yellow fangs and long nails in a plaid cap and
overalls driving off with an animated kid splayed all screaming and horrified against the car's rear window, spirals starting to roll
in the kid's eyes. Wait'll you see it.
     Ms. hooley: It's so scary it's positively riveting.
     mr. veals: [Sneezes twice.] Stuff of fucking nightmares.
     mr. yee: Urgle. Urgle urgle. Splarg. Kaa. [Falls from chair.]
     mr. tine jr.: Holy mackerel.
     mr. tine sr.: Buster? Buster?
     Ms. hooley: Mr. Yee's epileptic. Severe. Untreatable. Happened twice on the chopper in. Stress or embarrassment brings it on.
He'll be back up in a minute. Just act natural when he comes back up.
     mr. yee: [Heels drumming on terrazzo State House Annex floor tile.] Ack. Kaa.
     mr. tine sr.: Jesus.
     mr. tine jr.: [Tapping ruler on tabletop's edge.] Jesus W. Christ.
     mr. tine sr.: [Rising, indicating tapping ruler with extended weatherman's pointer.] All right, God damn it. Give me that thing.
Give it here.
     mr. tine jr.: But Chief-
     mr. tine sr.: You heard me God damn it. You know it drives me bats. You'll get it back when we're done. Drives me up the
wall. Always has. What is it with you and that ruler.
     Ms. hooley: Be up and back in the game in a jiff. He won't remember the fit. Just don't mention it. The embarrassment of
mentioning it'll set it off again. That's why twice on the chopper. I learned the hard way.
     mr. yee: Splar. Kak.
     mr. veals: [Hawking.] For Christ's sake.
     Ms. hooley: [Referring to notes.] As the cartridge in the car in the thought-bubble drives the splayed kid away, Phil prances a
bit and warns that we don't even know for sure what the cartridge to watch out for is even about. He warns that the police only
know that it's something that looks like you'd really want to watch it. He says all we know is it looks really entertaining. But that it
really just wants to take away your functionality. He says we know it's . .. Canadian.
     mr. veals: That's why the plaid cap in the traumatic graphic. Response data indicates a plaid cap with earflaps signifies the
Big C to over 70% of the spot's target. The overalls drive the association home.
     Ms. hooley: At nineteen seconds, Fully Functional Phil then dances his Warning Dance, a Native-American-cum-
Breakdance-type dance we're hoping will catch on among younger dancers. His rhetorical thrust is to play it functional and safe
and make sure and check with Mommy and/ or Daddy before watching any entertainment you haven't seen before. I.e. to accept
no Spontaneous Dissemination and play no post-delivered entertainment without checking with an authority figure.
     mr. tine jr.: But as a peer. More like, 'I'm thinking this is what / better do, if I want to stay fully functional.'
     mr. yee: [Back upright in chair.] Somebody's mentioned the floppy-ear and plastic-buck-teeth product tie-ins.
     mr. tine jr.: Jesus Mr. Yee, are you sure you're OK?
     Ms. hooley: Ixnay on the entionmay.
     mr. yee: [Sweat-soaked, looking around.] What did he mean? He didn't mean . . . ?
     mr. tine sr.: God damn it, Rodney.
     mr. yee: Urg. Splarg. [Falls from chair.]
     Ms. hooley: [Clears throat.] And finally, direly -- can I say direly?
     mr. veals: This is at 25.35 seconds.
     Ms. hooley: Emphatically warns that if Mommy and/or Daddy have been observed sitting in one position in front of the
home's viewer for an unusually long period of time --
     mr. veals: -- Without speaking. Without responding to stimuli.
     Ms. hooley: -- or acting in any way unusual or distracted or creepy or spooky with respect to an entertainment on the viewer
--
     mr. veals: We cut spooky on the last pass.
     mr. yee: Sklah. Nnngg.
     Ms. hooley: -- that the fully functional kid'll never attempt to rouse them himself, and Fully Functional Phil leans way in in a
kind of fish-eye-lens close-up and says 'No-ho-ho-ho way' would he ever be so dumb as to even for a second plunk himself
passively down and have a look at what it is his parents are so silently, creepily engrossed by, but to vacate the premises and
prance as fast as he can to get a policeman, who'll know just how to cut the premises' power and help Mum and Dad.
     mr. veals: His trademark expression is 'No-ho-ho-ho way.' He works it in whenever possible.
     mr. tine jr.: His equivalent to the Kleenex's 'No-Thankee.'
     mr. tine SR.: We're ready to view, I think.
     mr. yee: [Back in seat, necktie now wrapped all the way around neck like aviator's scarf.] Still hashing out the tie-ins with
Hasbro et al.
     mr. veals: We're all cued and ready.
     mr. tine sr.: Let's have a look at the sucker.
     Ms. hooley: Since Tom's too modest to say so, I should say that Tom's already storyboarded an extremely exciting adolescent-
targeted version of Fully Functional Phil, for music-video and soft-core disseminations, where Phil engages in a great deal more
ironic self-parody, and in this version his trademark expression becomes 'It's your ass, ace.'
     mr. tine jr.: So let's have a look at the bastard.
     mr. tine sr.: Kid, your job here from here on out is to pipe down, now do you --?
     mr. YEE: I've been asked to say for transcription how pleased the Glad Flaccid Receptacle Corporation is, during this
potentially grave interval, to be a proud --
     mr. veals: [At the Infernatron 210 Viewer.] Hit those lights over behind you, kid.
     mr. tine jr.: This'll make it difficult for the transcriber to transcribe, can I say.
     MR. YEE: This spot doesn't happen to in any way optically pulse or strobe, does it?
     mr. veals: Are we all set?
     mr. tine sr.: So lights already.

