

     3 NOVEMBER Y.D.A.U.
     'Because none of them really meant any of it,' Hal tells Kent Blott. 'The end-of-the-day hatred of all the work is just part of
the work. You think Schtitt and deLint don't know we're going to sit in there together after showers and bitch? It's all planned out.
The bitchers and moaners in there are just doing what's expected.'
     'But I look at these guys that've been here six, seven years, eight years, still suffering, hurt, beat up, so tired, just like I feel
tired and suffer, I feel this what, dread, this dread, I see seven or eight years of unhappiness every day and day after day of
tiredness and stress and suffering stretching ahead, and for what, for a chance at a like a pro career that I'm starting to get this
dready feeling a career in the Show means even more suffering, if I'm skele-tally stressed from all the grueling here by the time I
get there.'
     Blott's on his back on the shag carpet -- all five of them are -- stretched out splay-limbed with their heads up supported on
double-width velourish throw-pillows on the floor of V.R.6, one of the three little Viewing Rooms on the second floor of the
Comm.-Ad. Bldg., two flights up from the locker rooms and three from the main tunnel's mouth. The room's new cartridge-viewer
is huge and almost painfully high-definition; it hangs flat on the north wall like a large painting; it runs off a refrigerated chip; the
room's got no TP or phone-console; it's very specialized, just a player and viewer, and tapes; the cartridge-player sits on the
second shelf of a small bookcase beneath the viewer; the other shelves and several other cases are full of match-cartridges,
motivational and visualization cartridges -- InterLace, Tat-suoka, Yushityu, SyberVision. The 300-track wire from the cartridge-
player up to the lower-right corner of the wall-hung viewer is so thin it looks like a crack in the wall's white paint. Viewing
Rooms are windowless and the air from the vent is stale. Though when the viewer's on it looks like the room has a window.
     Hal's put on an undemanding visualization-type cartridge, as he usually does for a Big Buddy group-interface when they're all
tired. He's killed the volume, so you can't hear the reinforcing mantra, but the picture is bright and bell-clear. It's like the picture
almost leaps out at you. A graying and somewhat ravaged-looking Stan Smith in anachronistic white is at a court's baseline hitting
textbook forehands, over and over again, the same stroke, his back sort of osteoporotically hunched but his form immaculate, his
footwork textbook and effortless -- the frictionless pivot and back-set of weight, the anachronistic Wilson wood stick back and
pointing straight to the fence behind him, the fluid transfer of weight to the front foot as the ball comes in, the contact at waist-
level and just out front, the front leg's muscles bunching up as the back leg's settle, eyes glued to the yellow ball in the center of
his strings' stencilled W -- E.T.A. kids are conditioned to watch not just the ball but the ball's rotating seams, to read the spin
coming in -- the front knee dipping slightly down under bulging quads as the weight flows more forward, the back foot up almost
en-pointe on the gleaming sneaker's unscuffed toe, the no-nonsense flourishless follow-through so the stick ends up just in front of
his gaunt face -- Smith's cheeks have hollowed as he's aged, his face has collapsed at the sides, his eyes seem to bulge from the
cheekbones that protrude as he inhales after impact, he looks desiccated, aged in hot light, performing the same motions over and
over, for decades, his other hand floating up gently to grasp the stick's throat out in front of the face so he's flowed back into the
Ready Stance all over again. No wasted motion, egoless strokes, no flourishes or tics or excesses of wrist. Over and over, each
forehand melting into the next, a loop, it's hypnotizing, it's supposed to be. The soundtrack says 'Don't Think Just See Don't Know
Just Flow' over and over, if you turn it up. You're supposed to pretend it's you on the bell-clear screen with the fluid and egoless
strokes. You're supposed to disappear into the loop and then carry that disappearance out with you, to play. The kids're lying there
limp and splayed, supine, jaws slack, eyes wide and dim, a relaxed exhausted warmth -- the flooring beneath the shag is gently
heated. Peter Beak is asleep with his eyes open, a queer talent E.T.A. seems to instill in the younger ones. Orin had been able to
sleep with his eyes open at the dinner table, too, at home.
     Hal's fingers, long and light brown and still slightly sticky from tincture of benzoin, <endnote>46</endnote> are laced behind his upraised head
on the pillow, cupping his own skull, watching Stan Smith, eyes heavy too. 'You feel as though you'll be going through the exact
same sort of suffering at seventeen you suffer now, here, Kent?'
     Kent Blott has colored shoelaces on his sneakers with 'Mr.-Bouncety-Bounce-Program'-brand bow-biters, which Hal finds
extraordinarily artless and young.
     Peter Beak snores softly, a small spit-bubble protruding and receding.
     'But Blott surely you've considered this: Why are they all still here, then, if it's so awful every day?'
     'Not every day,' Blott says. 'But pretty often it's awful.'
     'They're here because they want the Show when they get out,' Ingersoll sniffs and says. The Show meaning the A.T.P. Tour,
travel and cash prizes and endorsements and appearance fees, match-highlights in video mags, action photos in glossy print-mags.
     'But they know and we know one very top junior in twenty even gets all the way to the Show. Much less survives there long.
The rest slog around on the satellite tours or regional tours or get soft as club pros. Or become lawyers or academics like everyone
else,' Hal says softly.
     'Then they stay and suffer to get a scholarship. A college ride. A white cardigan with a letter. Girl coeds keen on lettermen.'
     'Kent, except for Wayne and Pemulis not one guy in there needs any kind of scholarship. Pemulis'll get a full ride anywhere
he wants, just on test-scores. Slice's aunts'll send him anywhere even if he doesn't want to play. And Wayne's headed for the
Show, he'll never do more than a year in the O.N.A.N.C.A.A.'s.' Blott's father, a cutting-edge E.N.T. oncologist, flew all over the
world removing tumors from wealthy mucous membranes; Blott has a trust fund. 'None of that's the point and you guys know it.'
     'They love the game, you're going to say.'
     Stan Smith has switched to backhands.
     'They sure must love something, Ingersoll, but how about for a second I say that's not Kent's point either. Kent's point's the
misery in that room just now. K.B., I've taken part in essentially that same bitter bitchy kind of session hundreds of times with
those same guys after bad P.M.s. In the showers, in the sauna, at dinner.'
     'Very much bitching also in the lavatories,' Arslanian says.
     Hal unsticks his hair from his fingers. Arslanian always has a queer faint hot-doggish smell about him. 'The point is it's
ritualistic. The bitching and moaning. Even assuming they feel the way they say when they get together, the point is notice we
were all sitting there all feeling the same way together.'
     'The point is togetherness?'
     'Shouldn't there be violas for this part, Hal, if this is the point?'
     'Ingersoll, I --'
     Beak's cold-weather adenoids wake him periodically, and he gurgles and his eyes roll up briefly before they level out and he
settles back, seeming to stare.
     Hal creatively visualizes that Smith's velvety backhand is him slo-mo slapping Evan Ingersoll into the opposite wall.
Ingersoll's parents founded the Rhode Island version of the service where you order groceries by TP and teenagers in fleets of
station wagons bring them out to you, instead of supermarkets. 'What the point is is that we'd all just spent three hours playing
challenges against each other in scrotum-tightening cold, assailing each other, trying to take away each other's spots on the squads.
Trying to defend them against each other's assaults. The system's got inequality as an axiom. We know where we stand entirely in
relation to one another. John Wayne's over me, and I'm over Struck and Shaw, who two years back were both over me but under
Troeltsch and Schacht, and now are over Troeltsch who as of today is over Freer who's substantially over Schacht, who can't beat
anyone in the room except Pemulis since his knee and Crohn's Disease got so much worse, and is barely hanging on in terms of
ranking, and is showing incredible balls just hanging on. Freer beat me 4 and 2 in the quarters of the U.S. Clays two summers ago,
and now he's on the B-squad and five slots below me, six slots if Troeltsch can still beat him when they play again after that
illness-default.'
     'I am over Blott. I am over Ingersoll,' Idris Arslanian nods.
     'Well Blott's just ten, Idris. And you're under Chu, who's on an odd year and is under Possalthwaite. And Blott's under Beak
and Ingersoll simply by virtue of age-division.'
     'I know just where I stand at all times,' muses Ingersoll.
     SyberVision edits its visualization sequences with a melt-filter so Stan Smith's follow-through loops seamlessly into his
backswing for the exact same next stroke; the transitions are gauzy and dreamlike. Hal struggles to hike himself up onto his
elbows:
     'We're all on each other's food chain. All of us. It's an individual sport. Welcome to the meaning of individual. We're each
deeply alone here. It's what we all have in common, this aloneness.'
     'E Unibus Pluram,'' Ingersoll muses.
     Hal looks from face to face. Ingersoll's face is completely devoid of eyebrows and is round and dustily freckled, not unlike a
Mrs. Clarke pancake. 'So how can we also be together? How can we be friends? How can Ingersoll root for Arslanian in Idris's
singles at the Port Washington thing when if Idris loses Ingersoll gets to challenge for his spot again?'
     'I do not require his root, for I am ready.' Arslanian bares canines.
     'Well that's the whole point. How can we be friends? Even if we all live and eat and shower and play together, how can we
keep from being 136 deeply alone people all jammed together?'
     'You're talking about community. This is a community-spiel.'
     'I think alienation,' Arslanian says, rolling the profile over to signify he's talking to Ingersoll. 'Existential individuality,
frequently referred to in the West. Solipsism.' His upper lip goes up and down over his teeth.
     Hal says, 'In a nutshell, what we're talking about here is loneliness.'
     Blott looks about ready to cry. Beak's palsied eyes and little limb-spasms signify a troubling dream. Blott rubs his nose
furiously with the heel of his hand.
     'I miss my dog,' Ingersoll concedes.
     'Ah.' Hal rolls onto one elbow to hike a finger into the air. 'Ah. But then so notice the instant group-cohesion that formed itself
around all the pissing and moaning down there why don't you. Blott. You, Kent. This was your question. The what looks like
sadism, the skeletal stress, the fatigue. The suffering unites us. They want to let us sit around and bitch. Together. After a bad
P.M. set we all, however briefly, get to feel we have a common enemy. This is their gift to us. Their medicine. Nothing brings you
together like a common enemy.'
     'Mr. deLint.'
     'Dr. Tavis. Schtitt.'
     'DeLint. Watson. Nwangi. Thode. All Schtitt's henchmen and henchwo-men.'
     'I hate them!' Blott cries out.
     'And you've been here this long and you still think this hatred's an accident?'
     'Purchase a clue Kent Blott!' Arslanian says.
     'The large and economy-size clue, Blott,' Ingersoll chimes.
     Beak sits up and says 'God no not with pliers!' and collapses back again, again with the spit-bubble.
     Hal is pretending incredulity. 'You guys haven't noticed yet the way Schtitt's whole staff gets progressively more foul-
tempered and sadistic as an important competitive week comes up?'
     Ingersoll up on one elbow at Blott. 'The Port Washington meet. I.D. Day. The Tucson WhataBurger the week after. They
want us in absolute top shape, Blott.'
     Hal lies back and lets Smith's ballet de se loosen his facial muscles again, staring. 'Shit, Ingersoll, we're all in top shape
already. That's not it. That's the least of it. We're off the charts, shape-wise.'
     Ingersoll: 'The average North American kid can't even do one pull-up, according to Nwangi.'
     Arslanian points down at his own chest. 'Twenty-eight pull-ups.'
     'The point,' Hal says softly, 'is that it's not about the physical anymore, men. The physical stuff's just pro forma. It's the heads
they're working on here, boys. Day and year in and out. A whole program. It'll help your attitude to look for evidence of design.
They always give us something to hate, really hate together, as big stuff looms. The dreaded May drills during finals before the
summer tour. The post-Christmas crackdown before Australia. The November freezathon, the snot-fest, the delay in upping the
Lung and getting us under cover. A common enemy. / may despise K. B. Freer, or' (can't quite resist) 'Evan Ingersoll, or Jennie
Bash. But we despise Schtitt's men, the double matches on top of runs, the insensitivity to exams, the repetition, the stress. The
loneliness. But we get together and bitch, all of a sudden we're giving something group expression. A community voice.
Community, Evan. Oh they're cunning. They give themselves up to our dislike, calculate our breaking points and aim for just over
them, then send us into the locker room with an unstructured forty-five before Big Buddy sessions. Accident? Random
happenstance? You guys ever see evidence of the tiniest lack of coolly calculated structure around here?'
     'The structure's what I hate the most of all,' Ingersoll says.
     'They know what's going on,' Blott says, bouncing a little on his tailbone. 'They want us to get together and complain.'
     'Oh they're cunning,' Ingersoll says.
     Hal curls himself a bit on one elbow to put in a small plug of Kodíak. He can't tell whether Ingersoll's being insolent. He lies
there very slack, visualizing Smith pounding overheads down onto Ingersoll's skull. Hal some weeks back had acquiesced to
Lyle's diagnosis that Hal finds Ingersoll -- this smart soft caustic kid, with a big soft eyebrowless face and unwrinkled thumb-
joints, with the runty, cuddled look of a Mama's boy from way back, a quick intelligence he squanders on an insatiable need to
advance some impression of himself -- that the kid so repels Hal because Hal sees in the kid certain parts of himself he can't or
won't accept. None of this ever occurs to Hal when Ingersoll's in the room. He wishes him ill.
     Blott and Arslanian are looking at him. 'Are you OK?'
     'He is tired,' Arslanian says.
     Ingersoll drums idly on his own ribcage.
     Hal usually gets secretly high so regularly these days this year that if by dinnertime he hasn't gotten high yet that day his
mouth begins to fill with spit -- some rebound effect from B. Hope's desiccating action -- and his eyes start to water as if he's just
yawned. The smokeless tobacco started almost as an excuse to spit, sometimes. Hal's struck by the fact that he really for the most
part believes what he's said about loneliness and the structured need for a we here; and this, together with the Ingersoll-repulsion
and spit-flood, makes him uncomfortable again, brooding uncomfortably for a moment on why he gets off on the secrecy of
getting high in secret more than on the getting high itself, possibly. He always gets the feeling there's some clue to it on the tip of
his tongue, some mute and inaccessible part of the cortex, and then he always feels vaguely sick, scanning for it. The other thing
that happens if he doesn't do one-hitters sometime before dinner is he feels slightly sick to his stomach, and it's hard to eat enough
at dinner, and then later when he does go off and get off he gets ravenous, and goes out to Father & Son Market for candy, or else
floods his eyes with Murine and heads down to the Headmaster's House for another late dinner with C.T. and the Moms, and eats
like such a feral animal that the Moms says it does something instinctively maternal in her heart good to see him pack it away, but
then he wakes before dawn with awful indigestion.
     'So the suffering gets less lonely,' Blott prompts him.
     Two curves down the hall in V.R.5, where the viewer's on the south wall and doesn't get turned on, the Canadian John
Wayne's got LaMont Chu and 'Sleepy T.P.' Peterson and Kieran McKenna and Brian van Vleck.
     'He's talking about developing the concept of tennis mastery,' Chu tells the other three. They're on the floor Indian-style,
Wayne standing with his back against the door, rotating his head to stretch the neck. 'His point is that progress towards genuine
Show-caliber mastery is slow, frustrating. Humbling. A question of less talent than temperament.'
     'Is this right Mr. Wayne?'
     Chu says '... that because you proceed toward mastery through a series of plateaus, so there's like radical improvement up to a
certain plateau and then what looks like a stall, on the plateau, with the only way to get off one of the plateaus and climb up to the
next one up ahead is with a whole lot of frustrating mindless repetitive practice and patience and hanging in there.'
     'Plateaux,' Wayne says, looking at the ceiling and pushing the back of his head isometrically against the door. 'With an X.
Plateaux.'
     The inactive viewer's screen is the color of way out over the Atlantic looking straight down on a cold day. Chu's cross-legged
posture is textbook. 'What John's saying is the types who don't hang in there and slog on the patient road toward mastery are
basically three. Types. You've got what he calls your Despairing type, who's fine as long as he's in the quick-improvement stage
before a plateau, but then he hits a plateau and sees himself seem to stall, not getting better as fast or even seeming to get a little
worse, and this type gives in to frustration and despair, because he hasn't got the humbleness and patience to hang in there and
slog, and he can't stand the time he has to put in on plateaux, and what happens?'
      'Geronímo!' the other kids yell, not quite in sync.
      'He bails, right,' Chu says. He refers to index cards. Wayne's head makes the door rattle slightly. Chu says, 'Then you've got
your Obsessive type, J.W. says, so eager to plateau-hop he doesn't even know the word patient, much less bumble or slog, when
he gets stalled at a plateau he tries to like will and force himself off it, by sheer force of work and drill and will and practice,
drilling and obsessively honing and working more and more, as in frantically, and he overdoes it and gets hurt, and pretty soon
he's all chronically messed up with injuries, and he hobbles around on the court still obsessively overworking, until finally he's
hardly even able to walk or swing, and his ranking plummets, until finally one P.M. there's a little knock on his door and it's
deLint, here for a little chat about your progress here at E.T.A.'
      'Banzai! El Bailo! See ya!'
      'Then what John considers maybe the worst type, because it can cunningly masquerade as patience and humble frustration.
You've got the Complacent type, who improves radically until he hits a plateau, and is content with the radical improvement he's
made to get to the plateau, and doesn't mind staying at the plateau because it's comfortable and familiar, and he doesn't worry
about getting off it, and pretty soon you find he's designed a whole game around compensating for the weaknesses and chinks in
the armor the given plateau represents in his game, still -- his whole game is based on this plateau now. And little by little, guys
he used to beat start beating him, locating the chinks of the plateau, and his rank starts to slide, but he'll say he doesn't care, he
says he's in it for the love of the game, and he always smiles but there gets to be something sort of tight and hangdog about his
smile, and he always smiles and is real nice to everybody and real good to have around but he keeps staying where he is while
other guys hop plateaux, and he gets beat more and more, but he's content. Until one day there's a quiet knock at the door.'
      'It's DeLint!'
      'A quiet chat!'
      'Geronzai!'
      Van Vleck looks up at Wayne, who's now turned away with his hands against the door frame, shoving, one leg back,
stretching the right calf. 'This is your advice, Mr. Wayne sir? This isn't Chu palming himself off as you again?'
      They all want to know how Wayne does it, #2 continentally in 18's at just seventeen, and very likely #1 after the
WhataBurger and already getting calls from ProServ agents Tavis has Lateral Alice Moore screen. Wayne's the most sought-after
Big Buddy at E.T.A. You have to apply for Wayne as Buddy by random drawing.
      LaMont Chu and T. P. Peterson are sending van Vleck optical daggers as Wayne turns around to stretch a hip-flexor and says
he's said pretty much all he has to say.
      'Todder, I admire your savvy, I admire a kid's certain worldly skepticism, no matter how misplaced it is here. So even though
it fucks me on the odds, so there's now like practically no way I can come out square,' M. Pemulis says in V.R.2, subdorm C,
sitting on the very edge of the divan with a few feet of beige shag between him and his four kids, all cross-legged on cushions; he
says, Til reward your worldly skepticism this once by letting you try it with only two, so like I've got just two cards here, and I
hold them up, one in each hand....' He stops abruptly, knocks his temple with the heel of a hand that holds a Jack. 'Whoa, what am
I thinking. We all gotta put in our fiveski here first.'
      Otis P. Lord clears his throat: 'The ante.'
      'Or it's called the pot,' says Todd Possalthwaite, laying a five on the little pile.
      'Jaysus I'm thinking, sweet Jaysus what am I getting into with these kids that speak the lingo like veteran Jersey-shore
croupiers. I got to be missing a widget or something, 't the fuck, though, you know what I'm saying? So Todd man you choose just
one of the cards, we got the clubby Jack and the spade Queen here, and you choose . . . and so down they go both of them face-
down, and I like swirl them around on the floor a little, not shuffle but swirl so they're in plain view the whole time, and you
follllllowwwwwwww the card you chose, around and around, which like with three cards maybe I've got some chance you lose
track but with two? With just two?'
      Ted Schacht in V.R.3 at his giant plasticene oral demonstrator, the huge dental mock-up, white planks of teeth and obscene
pink gums, twine-size floss anchored around both wrists:
      'The vital thing here gentlemen being not the force or how often you rotate to particulate-free floss but the motion, see, a soft
sawing motion, gently up and down both ancipitals of the enamel' -- demonstrating down the side of a bicuspid big as the kids'
heads, the plasticene gum-stuff yielding with sick sucking sounds, Schacht's five kids all either glazed-looking or glued to their
watch's second-hand -- 'and then here's the key, here's the thing so few people understand: down below the ostensible gumline
into the basal recessions at either side of the gingival mound that obtrudes between the teeth, down below, where your most
pernicious particulates hide and breed.'
      Troeltsch holds court in his, Pemulis and Schacht's room in Subdorm C, supinely upright against both of his and one of
Schacht's pillows, the vaporizer chugging, one of his kids holding Kleenex at the ready.
      'Boys, what it is is I'll tell you it's repetition. First last always. It's hearing the same motivational stuff over and over till sheer
repetitive weight makes it sink down into the gut. It's making the same pivots and lunges and strokes over and over and over
again, at you boys's age it's reps for their own sake, putting results on the back burner, why they never give anybody the boot for
insufficient progress under fourteen, it's repetitive movements and motions for their own sake, over and over until the accretive
weight of the reps sinks the movements themselves down under your like consciousness into the more nether regions, through
repetition they sink and soak into the hardware, the C.P.S. The machine-language. The autonomical part that makes you breathe
and sweat. It's no accident they say you Eat, Sleep, Breathe tennis here. These are autonomical. Accretive means accumulating,
through sheer mindless repeated motions. The machine-language of the muscles. Until you can do it without thinking about it,
play. At like fourteen, give and take, they figure here. Just do it. Forget about is there a point, of course there's no point. The point
of repetition is there is no point. Wait until it soaks into the hardware and then see the way this frees up your head. A whole
shitload of head-space you don't need for the mechanics anymore, after they've sunk in. Now the mechanics are wired in.
Hardwired in. This frees the head in the remarkablest ways. Just wait. You start thinking a whole different way now, playing. The
court might as well be inside you. The ball stops being a ball. The ball starts being something that you just know ought to be in the
air, spinning. This is when they start getting on you about concentration. Right now of course you have to concentrate, there's no
choice, it's not wired down into the language yet, you have to think about it every time you do it. But wait till fourteen or fifteen.
Then they see you as being at one of the like crucial plateaus. Fifteen, tops. Then the concentration and character shit starts. Then
they really come after you. This is the crucial plateau where character starts to matter. Focus, self-consciousness, the chattering
head, the cackling voices, the choking-issue, fear versus whatever isn't fear, self-image, doubts, reluctances, little tight-lipped
cold-footed men inside your mind, cackling about fear and doubt, chinks in the mental armor. Now these start to matter. Thirteen
at the earliest. Staff looks at a range of thirteen to fifteen. Also the age of manhood-rituals in various cultures. Think about it.
Until then, repetition. Until then you might as well be machines, here, is their view. You're just going through the motions. Think
about the phrase: Going Through The Motions. Wiring them into the motherboard. You guys don't know how good you've got it
right now.'
      James Albrecht Lockley Struck Jr. of Orinda CA prefers one long Q&A-type interface, with V.R.8's viewer playing ambient
stuff against relaxation-vistas of surf, shimmering ponds, fields of nodding wheat.
      'Time for about maybe two more, me droogies.'
      'Say it's close and the guy starts kertwanging you. Balls are way in and he's calling them out. You can't believe the flagrancy
of it.'
      'Implicit this is a no-linesman situation, Traub, you're saying.'
      Creepily-blue-eyed Audern Tallat-Kelpsa chimes in: 'This is early rounds. The kind they give you only two balls. Honor
systems. All of a sudden there he is kertwanging on you. It happens.'
      'I know it happens.'
      Traub says, 'Whether he's outright kertwanging or just head-fucking you. Do you start kertwanging back? Tit for tat? What do
you do?'
      'Do we assume there's a crowd.'
      'Early round. Remote court. No witnesses. You're on your own out there. Do you kertwang back.'
      'You do not kertwang back. You play the calls, not a word, keep smiling. If you still win, you'll have grown inside as a
person.'
      'If you lose?'
      'If you lose, you do something private and unpleasant to his water-jug right before his next round.'
      A couple of the kids have notebooks and studious nods. Struck is a prized tactician, very formal in B.B. group-sessions,
something scholarly and detached about him his charges often revere.
      'We can discuss private water-jug unpleasantness on Friday,' Struck says, looking at his watch.
      A hand raised by the violently cross-eyed Carl Whale, age thirteen. Acknowledgment from Struck.
      'Say you have to fart.'
      'You're serious, Mobes, aren't you.'
      'Jim sir, say you're playing out there, and suddenly you have to fart. It feels like one of those real hot nasty pressurized ones.'
      'I get the picture.'
      Now some empathic murmurs, exchanged looks. Josh Gopnik is nodding very intensely. Struck stands very straight to the
right of the viewer, hands behind his back like an Oxford don.
      'I mean the kind that's real urgent.' Whale looks briefly around him. 'But that it's not impossible it's actually a need to go to the
bathroom, instead, masquerading as a fart.'
      Now five heads are nodding, pained, urgent: clearly a vexing sub-14 issue. Struck examines a cuticle.
      'Meaning defecate is what you mean, then, Mobes. Go to the bathroom.'
      Gopnik looks up. 'Carl's saying the kind where you don't know what to do. What if you think you have to fart but it's really
that you have to shit?'
      'As in it's a competitive situation, it's not a situation where you can go bearing down and forcing and see what happens.'
      'So out of caution you don't,' Gopnik says.
      '--fart,' Philip Traub says.
      'But then you've denied yourself an urgent fart, and you're running around trying to compete with a terrible hot nasty
uncomfortable fart riding around the court inside you.'
      Two levels down, Ortho Stice and his brood: the little libraryish circle of soft chairs and lamps in the warm foyer off the front
door to subdorm C:
      'And what he says he says it's about more than tennis, mein kinder. Mein kinder, well it sort of means my family. He eyeballs
me right square in the eye and says it's about how to reach down into parts of yourself you didn't know were there and get down in
there and live inside these parts. And the only way to get to them: sacrifice. Suffer. Deny. What are you willing to give. You'll
hear him ask it if you're privileged to ever get an interface. The call could come at anytime: the man wants a mano-to-mano
interface. You'll hear him say it over and over. What have you got to give. What are you willing to part with. I see you're looking a
little pale there, Wagen-knecht. Is this scary you bet your little pink personal asses it's scary. It's the big time. He'll tell you straight
the fuck out. It's about discipline and sacrifice and honor to something way bigger than your personal ass. He'll mention America.
He'll talk patriotism and don't think he won't. He'll talk about it's patriotic play that's the high road to the thing. He's not American
but I tell you straight out right here he makes me proud to be American. Mein kinder. He'll say it's how to learn to be a good
American during a time, boys, when America isn't good its own self.'
      There's a long pause. The front door is newer than the wood around it.
      'I'd chew fiberglass for that old man.'
      The only reason the Buddies in V.R.8 can hear the little burst of applause from the foyer is because Struck won't hesitate to
pause and consider silently as long as he has to. To the kids the pauses spell dignity and integrity and the still-water depth of a guy
with nine years in at three different academies, and who has to shave daily. He exhales a slow breath through rounded lips,
looking off up at the ceiling's guilloche border.
      'Mobes, if it's me: I let it ride.'
      'You let it out come what may?'
      'A la contraire. I let it ride around inside all day if I have to. I make an iron rule: nothing escapes my bottom during play. Not
a toot or a whistle. If I play hunched over I play hunched over. I take the discomfort in the name of dignified caution, and when
it's especially bad I look up at sky between points and I say to the sky Thank You Sir may I have another. Thank You Sir may I
have another.'
      Gopnik and Tallat-Kelpsa are writing this down.
      Struck says, 'That's if I want to hang for the long haul.'
      'One side of the gingival mound, then up over the apex and down over the other side of the gingival mound, using you should
cultivate a certain amount of touch with the string.'
      'Now the big question of character is do we let a fluke of a probably one-in-a-hundred lapse in concentration make us throw
up our faggy hands and go dragging characterlessly back to our dens to lick the whimpering wounds, or do we narrow our eyes
and put out the chin and say Pemulis we say we say Pemulis, Double or Nothing, when the odds remain so almost crazily stacked
in our favor today.'
      'So they do it on purpose?' Beak is asking. 'Try to make us hate them?'
      Limits and rituals. It's almost time for communal dinner. Sometimes Mrs. Clarke in the kitchen lets Mario ring a triangle with
a steel ladle while she rolls back the dining-room doors. They make the servers wear hairnets and little Ob/Gynish gloves. Hal
could take out the plug and nip down into the tunnels, maybe not even all the way down into the Pump Room. Be only twenty
minutes late. He's thinking in an abstract absent way about limits and rituals, listening to Blott give Beak his aperçu. Like as in is
there a clear line, a quantifiable difference between need and just strong desire. He has to sit up to spit in the wastebasket. There is
a twinge in a tooth on his mouth's left side.

