

      0450H., 11 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT FRONT OFFICE, ENNET HOUSE
D.A.R.H., ENFIELD MA
      'Didn't know whether to shit or shout Dixie after it went off. And the look on his face.'
      'One of the times for me was I'm in some bar in Lowell with some guys I'm crewing around with and we were there with
some other guys, just fucking Lowell knuckleheads, your young drunks that are just getting to be your young working-type drunks
that stop off after work for just a couple and don't make it home til closing. Just putting away boilermakers and playing darts and
this and that. And this one guy on the crew starts making moves on this one guy's girl, this real ordinary-looking guy's in there
with his girl and one of our guys starts saying this and that to her, trying to pick her up, and her date got pissed off, you know,
who can blame him, and there was words exchanged and so on and so forth, and we was all there with this first guy, in our like
group, he was the one talking the shit to this guy's girl but he was our boy, we're all in the crew, so we all crew up on this girl's
date and push him around somewhat, you know how it is, say he's talking shit to our boy, he gets a little bit of a beating, dope-
slaps, nothing like extreme or blood, and we kick his ass around a little bit and toss him out of this bar and get this girl to drink
boilermakers with us and the one guy that was making the moves on her in the first place gets her to start playing strip-darts, like
taking off bits of clothes for points in darts, which the keep isn't too like thrilled but these boys are his customers, it's like family.
We're all real drunk and playing strip-darts.'
      T get the picture. Sounds like a real nice picture.'
      'Except when I got a little smarter later I learned you never in a neighborhood bar fu-- you don't ever mess with a local guy
with a girl and make him look small in front of the girl and then stay there where it happened if he leaves, because it's this kind of
guy always comes back.'
      'You learned to leave.'
      'Because this guy like a half-hour later on he comes back packing. Packing means there's a Item involved, now, see.'
      'Item?'
      'A gun. This wasn't a big one, I'm remembering a .25 somewhat, in that range, but in he comes and comes straight over to the
dart game and the girl that's down to her slip and pulls it out and without saying nothing up and comes right over and shoots our
boy, that'd taken his girl and made him look small, shoots him right in the head, right in the back of the head.'
      'Boy was crazy as a shithouse rat.'
      'Well Joelle he'd got made small in front of his girl, and we stayed, and he came back and plugged him in the back of the
head.'
      'And killed him dead.'
      'Not right away he didn't die. The negativest part for me is what we do. All us guys with the guy that was shot. We are all
very fucked up by this point in time. I remember it not seeming real. The keep's busy calling the Finest, the guy drops the Item and
the keep grabbed him and covered him with the bar piece and called the Finest and kept the guy back behind the bar, I think
mostly now to keep us from eliminating his map right there, out of payback. We're all blotto-zombie drunk by this juncture. The
girl, there was blood all down the side of her slip. And here our boy's shot in the head, the guy'd shot him right through the back of
the head from the side, and blood's all over. You always maybe think of individuals bleeding in this one way, like steady. But your
serious bleeding comes with the pulse, if you didn't know. It like shoots out and dies down and shoots out.'
      'Don't have to tell me.'
      'Well I don't know you, Joelle, am I right? I don't know what you seen or know.'
      'I saw an old boy cut his hand off with a chainsaw cutting back brush back of the Cumberland when I was fishing with my
Daddy. Like to have bled to death right there. My Daddy had to use his belt. Before he got it tied off the blood came like that, with
the pulse. My Daddy got him to the hospital in his car, like to saved his life. He'd had some training. He could save lives like that.'
      'I tell you, what still gets me is we was so drunk we didn't even somehow take it seriously, because everything seemed like a
movie when I got real drunk. I still wish we'd thought to take him to the hospital right away. We could of piled him in. He wasn't
dead yet even though he didn't look good. We didn't even lay him down, we got this idea, one of the guys started walking him
around. We all walked him around in circles like some kind of O.D., thought if we could keep him walking til the wagon came
he'd be OK. By the end we was dragging him, I think then he was dead. Blood all over everybody. The gun wasn't more than an
old .25. People was yelling at us to pile him in and take him to the hospital, but we'd got this walking-him-around idea into our
heads, to hold him up and walk him in circles, the girl's screaming and trying to put her stockings on and we're yelling to the guy
that'd shot him how we were going to off with his map and so on and so forth, till the keep called an ambulance and they came and
he was dead as a stick.'
     'Gately that's really bad.'
     'Why are you even up, don't have to work.'
     'I like it when it snows real early like this. This is the best window. But you learned a lesson.'
     'His name was Chuck or Chick. The one that got shot that time.'
     'Did you hear that McDade person at supper? You know how some folks have one of their legs shorter than the other?'
     'I don't listen to those guys' crap.'
     'It was down at the far end of the table at supper. He was telling Ken and me how he had a counselor when he was in Juvenile
in Jamaica Plain, he had this counselor he said she had this condition where each leg was shorter than the other.'
     'I don't think I follow you, Joelle.'
     'Each of the woman's legs was shorter than the other.'
     'How can a leg that's shorter than the other leg have the other leg shorter than it?'
     'He was having us on. He said the point was an AA point, that it defied sense and explaining and you just had to accept it on
faith. That creepy Randy guy with the white wig was backing him up with a very straight face. McDade said she walked like a
metronome. He was making fun of us, but I still thought it was funny.'
     'Maybe tell me about this veil of yours, then, Joelle, if we're talking about defied sense.'
     'Waaaay out to one side. Then waaaay out to the other side.'
     'Really. Let's really interface if you're in here. How come with the veil?'
     'Bridal thing.'
     '...'
     'Aspiring Muslim.'
     'I didn't mean to pry in. You can just tell me if you don't want to talk about the veil.'
     'I'm also in another fellowship, with almost four years in.'
     'U.H.I.D.'
     'It's the Union of the Hideously and Improbably Deformed. The veil is a sort of fellowship caparison.'
     'What's it compared to?'
     'We all wear one. Almost all of us, with some time in.'
     'But if you don't mind, how come you're in it? U.H.I.D.? How're you supposed to be deformed? It's nothing that sticks way
out, if I can say it. Are you, like, missing something?'
     'There's a brief ceremony. It's a bit like giving out chips over at the Better Late Than Never meeting, for Varying Lengths.
The new U.H.I.D.s stand and receive the veil and don the veil and stand there and recite that the veil they've donned is a Type and
a Symbol, and that they are choosing freely to be bound to wear it always -- a day at a time -- both in light and darkness, both in
solitude and before others' gaze, and as with strangers so with familiar friends, even Daddies. That no mortal eye will see it
withdrawn. That they hereby declare openly that they wish to hide from all sight. Unquote.'
     '...'
     'I've also got a membership card that spells out everything you could ever want to know, and more.'
     'Except I've asked Pat and Tommy S. and still the thing I don't get is why join a fellowship just to hide? I can see if somebody
is like -- you know, hideously -- and they've been hiding away in the dark all their life, and they want to Come In and join a
fellowship where everybody's equal and everybody can Identify because they all spent their whole life hiding also, and you join a
fellowship so you can step out of the dark and into the group and get support and finally show yourself minus eyes or with three
ti-- arms or whatever and be accepted by people that know just what it's like, and like in AA they say they'll love you till you can
like love yourself and accept yourself, so you don't care what people see or think anymore, and you can finally step out of the cage
and quit hiding.'
     That's AA?'
     'Kind of, a little bit, I think.'
     'Well Mr. Gately what people don't get about being hideously or improbably deformed is that the urge to hide is offset by a
gigantic sense of shame about your urge to hide. You're at a graduate wine-tasting party and improbably deformed and you're the
object of stares that the people try to conceal because they're ashamed of wanting to stare, and you want nothing more than to hide
from the covert stares, to erase your difference, to crawl under the tablecloth or put your face under your arm, or you pray for a
power failure and for this kind of utter liberating equalizing darkness to descend so you can be reduced to nothing but a voice
among other voices, invisible, equal, no different, hidden.'
     'Is this like this thing they talked about about people hating their faces on videophones?'
     'But Don you're still a human being, you still want to live, you crave connection and society, you know intellectually that
you're no less worthy of connection and society than anyone else simply because of how you appear, you know that hiding
yourself away out of fear of gazes is really giving in to a shame that is not required and that will keep you from the kind of life
you deserve as much as the next girl, you know that you can't help how you look but that you are supposed to be able to help how
much you care about how you look. You're supposed to be strong enough to exert some control over how much you want to hide,
and you're so desperate to feel some kind of control that you settle for the appearance of control.'
     'Your voice gets different when you talk about this shit.'
     'What you do is you hide your deep need to hide, and you do this out of the need to appear to other people as if you have the
strength not to care how you appear to others. You stick your hideous face right in there into the wine-tasting crowd's visual
meatgrinder, you smile so wide it hurts and put out your hand and are extra gregarious and outgoing and exert yourself to appear
totally unaware of the facial struggles of people who are trying not to wince or stare or give away the fact that they can see that
you're hideously, improbably deformed. You feign acceptance of your deformity. You take your desire to hide and conceal it
under a mask of acceptance.'
      'Use less words.'
      'In other words you hide your hiding. And you do this out of shame, Don: you're ashamed of the fact that you want to hide
from sight. You're ashamed of your uncontrolled craving for shadow. U.H.I.D.'s First Step is admission of powerlessness over the
need to hide. U.H.I.D. allows members to be open about their essential need for concealment. In other words we don the veil. We
don the veil and wear the veil proudly and stand very straight and walk briskly wherever we wish, veiled and hidden, and but now
completely up-front and unashamed about the fact that how we appear to others affects us deeply, about the fact that we want to
be shielded from all sight. U.H.I.D. supports us in our decision to hide openly.'
      'You seem like you drift in and out of different ways of talking. Sometimes it's like you don't want me to follow.'
      'Well I've got a brand-new life, just out of the wrapper, which you all say'll take some time to fit.'
      'So they teach you how to accept your nonacceptance, the Union, you're saying.'
      'You followed very well. You didn't need fewer words at all. If you don't mind my saying so, my sense is that you think
you're not bright but you're not.'
      'Not bright?'
      'I put that poorly. You're not not bright. As in you're incorrect in thinking you have nothing upstairs.'
      'It's a self-esteem issue, then, you're seeing in me after like three days here, then. I feel low esteem about how I think I'm not
bright enough for some people.'
      'Which is fine, U.H.I.D. would say, to illustrate the U.H.I.D. take versus an apparently more AA take. U.H.I.D.'d say it's fine
to feel inadequate and ashamed because you're not as bright as some others, but that the cycle becomes annular and insidious if
you begin to be ashamed of the fact that being unbright shames you, if you try to hide the fact that you feel mentally inadequate,
and so go around making jokes about your own dullness and acting as if it didn't bother you at all, pretending you didn't care
whether others perceived you as unbright or not.'
      'This makes the front of my head hurt, trying to follow this.'
      'Well you've been up all night.'
      'Then now I have to go to my other fucking job.'
      'You're way brighter than you think, Don G., although I doubt anything anyone else says can get in there into the gnawed
ragged place where you're afraid you're slow and dull.'
      'And what makes you think I think I'm not bright, unless it's you're saying it's obvious to anybody I'm not bright?'
      'I didn't mean to pry. Just tell me if you don't want to speak to someone you barely know about it.'
      'Now you're being sarcastic on what I said before.'
      '...'
      'I got kicked off of football my tenth-grade year for flunking English.' 'You played American football?'
      'I was good til I got kicked off. They gave me a tutor and I still flunked.' 'I used to twirl a baton at halftimes. I went to a
special camp six summers running.'
      '...'
      'But a lot of the forms of self-hatred there is no veil for. U.H.I.D.'s taught a lot of us to be grateful that there's at least a veil
for our form.' 'So the veil's a way to not hide it.' 'To hide openly, is more like it.'
      'I'm already seeing it's very different from the drug-recovery agenda, the AA and NA program.'
      'Can I ask how you're deformed?'
      'The best is when the sun's coming up right through the snow and everything looks so white.'
      '...'
      'I almost forgot why I came on in, that that Kate girl said Ken E. like to get killed by some son of a bitch last night at that
Waltham NA thing and they want somebody to tell Johnette not to make them go back again if they don't want.'
      'One is Kate and Ken can talk for themselves with Johnette and I don't need to pry in and you sure don't need to pry in and
rescue nobody else. Two is you're all of a sudden talking different again, and when you were talking about the veil you didn't
sound like you to me. And three is don't think I can't see you're coming out sideways all over the place about when I asked can I
ask what deformity you're not hiding the fact that you're hiding under that thing. The Staff part of me wants to say if you don't
want to answer it just say so, but don't try and go around the side and think you can distract me into forgetting I asked it.'
      'The U.H.I.D. in me would say you're trapped in shame about the shame, in response, and that the shame-circle keeps you
from really being present for your Staff job, Don. You're more bugged by the possibility that I'm treating you as unbright and
distractable than you are about a resident's inability to come right out and openly exercise her right to refuse to answer an
incredibly private and drug-unrelated question.'
      'And now she's back to talking like a fucking English teacher again. But ignore that. That's not the point. Look at how you're
trying to get our dialogue all distracted up in shame and me again instead of saying Yes or No to me asking Will you tell me what
you're missing behind that veil.'
      'Oh you're good at hiding Mr. G. you're good. The minute we start to poke at any inadequacies you're ashamed of, see, you
drop behind your own protective mask of House Staff and start probing areas that you now know I can't bring myself to be open
about -- since you got me to tell you all about U.H.I.D.'s philosophy of hiding -- so that your own sense of inadequacy gets either
buried or used as a backlight to illuminate my own inability to be open and straightforward. The best defense is a good offense
isn't it Mr. Football Player.'
      'Aspirin-time, now, with all the words. You win. Go watch the snow come down someplace else.'
      'The thing is, Mr. Staff, I've already just completely opened up about my shame and my inability to be open and
straightforward about this. You're exposing something I've already held up to view. It's your shame about being ashamed of what
you're afraid might be seen as a lack of brightness that's getting to stay buried under this dead horse of my deformity that you're
trying to whip.'
      'And then meantime you still didn't say a straight-on Yes or No to Can I ask what's up behind there, are you cross-eyed or
have a like beard, or do you have like really bad skin under there even though your skin everyplace that isn't hidden looks --'
      'Looks what? My unhidden skin is what?'
      'See, this is you keep trying to sidetrack instead of just saying No to Can I ask. Just say No. Try it. It's OK. Nothing bad'll
happen. Just try it straight out.'
      'Perfect. You were going to say every visible expanse of my skin is just drop-dead creamy perfect.'
      'Jesus, why am I even here? Why don't you just interface with yourself if you think you know all my issues and shames and
everything I'm going to say? Why not take the suggestion to say No? Why come in here? Did I come to you, to talk? Was I just
sitting in here trying to keep awake and do the Log and getting ready to go mop shit with a shoe-freak and did or didn't you waltz
on in and sit down and come to me?'
      'Don, I'm perfect. I'm so beautiful I drive anybody with a nervous system out of their fucking mind. Once they've seen me
they can't think of anything else and don't want to look at anything else and stop carrying out normal responsibilities and believe
that if they can only have me right there with them at all times everything will be all right. Everything. Like I'm the solution to
their deep slavering need to be jowl to cheek with perfection.'
      'Now with the sarcasm.'
      'I am so beautiful I am deformed.'
      'Now with the nonrespectful acting-out of treating me like I'm stupid for trying to get her to walk through her fear to give a
straight-out No, which she isn't willing.'
      'I am deformed with beauty.'
      'You want to see my professional Staff face here's my Staff face. I nod and smile, I treat you like somebody I have to humor
by nodding and smiling, and behind the face I'm going with my finger around and around my temple like What a fucking yutz,
like Where's the net.'
      'Believe what you want. I'm powerless over what you believe, I know.'
      'See the professional Staffer writing in the Meds Log: "Six extra-strong-kind aspirin for Staff after sarcasm and sideways
refusal to walk through fears and sarcastic acting out by newcomer who thinks she knows everybody else's issues.'
      'What position did you play?'
      '. . . that the Staffer wonders how come she's even here in treatment then, if she knows so much.'

