

     ENORMOUS, ELECTROLYSIS-RASHED 'JOURNALIST' 'HELEN'
     STEEPLY'S ONLY PUTATIVE PUBLISHED ARTICLE BEFORE
     BEGINNING HER SOFT PROFILE ON PHOENIX CARDINALS
     PUNTER ORIN J. INCANDENZA, AND HER ONLY PUTATIVE
     PUBLISHED ARTICLE TO HAVE ANYTHING OVERTLY TO DO
     WITH GOOD OLD METROPOLITAN BOSTON, 10 AUGUST IN THE
     YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT, FOUR YEARS
     AFTER OPTICAL THEORIST, ENTREPRENEUR, TENNIS
     ACADEMICIAN, AND AVANT-GARDE FILMMAKER JAMES O.
     INCANDENZA TOOK HIS OWN LIFE BY PUTTING HIS HEAD IN A
     MICROWAVE OVEN
     Moment Magazine has learned that the tragic fate of the second North American citizen to receive a Jarvik IX Exterior
Artificial Heart has, sadly, been kept from the North American people. The woman, a 46-year-old Boston accountant with
irreversible restenosis of the heart, responded so well to the replacement of her defective heart with a Jarvik IX Exterior Artificial
Heart that within weeks she was able to resume the active lifestyle she had so enjoyed before stricken, pursuing her active
schedule with the extraordinary prosthesis portably installed in a stylish Etienne Aigner purse. The heart's ventricular tubes ran up
to shunts in the woman's arms and ferried life-giving blood back and forth between her living, active body and the extraordinary
heart in her purse.
     Her tragic, untimely, and, some might say, cruelly ironic fate, however, has been the subject of the all too frequent silence
needless tragedies are buried beneath when they cast the callous misunderstanding of public officials in the negative light of
public knowledge. It took the sort of searching and fearless journalistic doggedness readers have come to respect in Moment to
unearth the tragically negative facts of her fate.
     The 46-year-old recipient of the Jarvik IX Exterior Artificial Heart was actively window shopping in Cambridge,
Massachusetts' fashionable Harvard Square when a transvestíte purse snatcher, a drug addict with a criminal record all too well
known to public officials, bizarrely outfitted in a strapless cocktail dress, spike heels, tattered feather boa, and auburn wig, brutally
tore the life sustaining purse from the woman's unwitting grasp.
     The active, alert woman gave chase to the purse snatching 'woman' for as long as she could, plaintively shouting to passers by
the words 'Stop her! She stole my heart!' on the fashionable sidewalk crowded with shoppers, reportedly shouting repeatedly, 'She
stole my heart, stop her!' In response to her plaintive calls, tragically, misunderstanding shoppers and passers by merely shook
their heads at one another, smiling knowingly at what they ignorantly presumed to be yet another alternative lifestyle's re-
lationship gone sour. A duo of Cambridge, Massachusetts, patrolmen, whose names are being withheld from Moment's dogged
queries, were publicly heard to passively quip, 'Happens all the time,' as the victimized woman staggered frantically past in the
wake of the fleet transvestite, shouting for help for her stolen heart.
     That the prosthetic crime victim gave spirited chase for over four blocks before collapsing onto her empty chest is testimony
to the impressive capacity of the Jarvik IX replacement procedure, was the anonymous comment of a public medical official
reached for comment by Moment.
     The drug crazed purse snatcher, informed officials passively speculated, may have found even his hardened conscience
moved by the life saving prosthesis the ill gotten woman's Aigner purse revealed, which runs on the same rechargeable power cell
as an electric man's razor, and may well have continued to beat and bleed for a period of time in the rudely disconnected purse.
The purse snatcher's response to this conscience appears to have been cruelly striking the Jarvik IX Exterior Artificial Heart
repeatedly with a stone or small hammer-like tool, where its remains were found some hours later behind the historic Boston
Public Library in fashionable Copley Square.
     Is medical science's awe inspiring march forward, however, always doomed to include such tragic incidents of ignorance and
callous loss, one might ask. Such seems to be the stance of North American officials. If indeed so, the victims' fate is frequently
kept from the light of public knowledge.
     And the facts of the case's outcome? The 46-year-old deceased woman's formerly active, alert brain was removed and
dissected six weeks later by a Brigham and Women's City of Boston Hospital medical student reportedly so moved by her terse
toe tag's account of the victim's heartless fate that he confessed to Moment a temporary inability to physically wield the power
saw of his assigned task.

