  PEEMSTER
   The Mean Value we're after, A, can now be expressed integrally as the Area of some intermediate-type rectangle whose height is taller [sic] than
r but shorter [sic] than R. From here on it's just tit. We need a constant. You always need a constant. Inc's nodding his head sarcastically like I
think I'm saying something sage. Let d be any constant, for computational reasons the closer to 1 the better, so like let d be the size of Hal's Unit.
   Hal Incandenza's Addendum: In meters.
   Michael Pemulis's Resumption: Very funny. So now, just looking at the wicked-illuminating PEEMSTER diagram above, you can see that this Area
we want:
   is going to be bigger than the area of the rectangle with height r and but also smaller than the area of the rectangle with height R. Pure mental
reason [sic] compels, then, that [sic] somewhere in there between r and R there's an exact height, f(x'), such that (I have to say that every
demonstration of a stats theorem has Let and such that in them, mostly I think because they're so wicked much fun to say) such that the rectangle
of this height f(x') over the whole interval [a, b] has exactly the Area we want, the Mean Value of all the historic [sic] expenditure-ratios; in other
words in abstracted form:
  where (b -- a) is just the size of the interval. And so have a look at the revealing diagram labeled HALSADICK:
   This fucking works. You don't have to crunch out a whole new ratio each time for each Combatant to dole out the ordnance. You just skim the
highest and lowest ratios off the Eschaton records the Beanie-man keeps on each time. This is wicked. This is fucking elegant. Note that (Note
that's another like compulsitory [sic] term) note that the Combatant's Mean-Value megatonnage will change, slightly, from Eschaton to Eschaton,
exactly the way a like hitter's season average will alter just a bit from at-bat to at-bat, depending integrally on what he delivered on his last trip to
the plate and whatnot. Note also that you can use this Mean-Value time-saver with anything that varies within a (definable) set of boundaries and
whatnot -- like any line, or a tennis court's boundaries, or like maybe say a certain drug's urine-level range between Clean and Royally Pinched. As
a like exercise, if you're interested, play three hours of high-level competitive jr. top-level [sic] tennis and then calculate the Mean Value of the
ratios of first serves to appearances at net and appearances at net to points won; for a serve-and-volleyer, this is how to tell how serve-dependent
his match-performance is. DeLint does this kind of exercise every morning sitting on the can. It's going to be interesting to see if [sic] Hal, who
thinks he's just too sly trying to outline Eschaton in the 3rd-person tense [sic] like some jowly old
Eschatologist with leather patches on his elbows [sic], if Inc can transpose [sic?] the math here without help from his Mumster. Later. P.S. Allston
Rules.
124
     Both EndStat and Mathpak are registered trademarks of Aapps Inc., itself now a division of InterLace TelEntertainment.
    125
        Plastic-mesh laundry baskets take two hands to carry and keep you from being able to dribble up more balls with your stick's face; the cast-
off janitorial buckets are the size of like a middle-size wastebasket, but they have a sturdy steel pail-type handle, and their hard-polymer
composition makes for lasting wear. It was into just such a bucket that Pemulis threw up before his kind of suspicious V.D. down at Port
Washington.
(Various gear-companies sell various specially designed ball receptacles with names like 'Ball-Hopper' and 'Ball-Bank' -- the general Academy
consensus is these are for dilettantes and pussies.)
126
     It being well-nigh impossible to keep the present from infecting even a playful and childlike Historical Consciousness, Canadians often end up
playing picayune but villainous roles in Eschatonic TRIGSITs.
127
     A lot of these little toss-ins and embellishments are Inc amusing himself, not Otis's TRIGSIT, which is 100% all biz.
P.S. Wolf-Spiders Ruleth the Land.
128
     Most Valuable Lobber.
129
     M. Pemulis is, in the best Allston MA tradition, a good friend and a bad-news enemy, and even E.T.A.s who don't like him are careful not to do
or even say anything that might call for score-settling, because Pemulis is a thoroughgoing chilled-revenge gourmet, and is not one bit above
dosing someone's water-jug or voltaging their doorknob or encoding something horrid in your E.T.A. med-files or dickying with the mirror over the
bureau in the little recessed part of your subdorm room so that when you look in the mirror in the A.M. to comb or tend to a blackhead or
something you see something staring back at you that you'll never entirely get over, which is what took over two years to finally happen to M. H.
Penn, who afterward wouldn't say what he'd seen but stopped shaving altogether and, it's agreed, has never been quite himself since.
130
     Pemulis doesn't actually literally say 'breath and bread.'
131
     Before Boston Groups' regular speaker meetings there are often closed, half-hour Beginners' Discussion Meetings, where newcomers can share
their cluelessness, weakness, and despair in a warm supportive private atmosphere.
132
     The word Group in AA Group is always capitalized because Boston AA places enormous emphasis on joining a Group and identifying yourself as
a member of this larger thing, the Group. Likewise caps in like Commitment, Giving It Away, and c.
_ Gately's little bedroom in the damp Ennet House basement is plastered all over every part of every wall that's dry enough to take tape with
cutout Scotch-taped photos of all sorts of variegated and esoteric celebrities past and present, which are varied as residents throw magazines into
the E.M.P.H.H. dumpsters and are frequently selected because the celebrities are somehow grotesque; it's a kind of compulsive habit held over
from Gately's fairly dysfunctional North Shore childhood, when he'd been a clipping and taping fiend.
    _ And if you're brand-new, as in like your first three days, and so on mandatory nonpunitive House Restriction -- like veiled Joelle van Dyne, who
entered the House just today, 11/8, Interdependence Day, after the E.R. physician at Brigham and Women's Hospital who last night had pumped
her full of Inderal3 and nitro had looked upon her unveiled face and been deeply affected, and had taken a special interest, a consequence of which
after Joelle regained consciousness and speech had involved placing a call to Pat Montesian, whose paralyzying alcoholic stroke the physician had
treated in this very same E.R. almost seven years before, and in whose case he'd also taken a special interest and had followed, such that he was
now a personal friend of the sober Pat M.'s and sat honorarily on Ennet House's Board of Directors, so that his call to Pat's home on Saturday night
had gotten Joelle into the House on the spot, as of Interdependence Day A.M.'S discharge from B&W, leap-frogging literally dozens of waiting-list
people and putting Joelle into Ennet House's intensive program of residential treatment literally before she even knew what was happening, which
in retrospect might have been lucky -- if you're this new you're actually not supposed ever to leave the Staffer's sight, though in practice this rule
gets suspended when you have to go to the ladies' room and the Staffer's male, or vice versa.
a. Propranolol hydrochloride, Wyeth-Ayerst, a beta-blocking antihypertensive.
_ A conviction common to all who Hang In with AA, after a while, and abstracted in the slogan 'My Best Thinking Got Me Here.'
_ Trade-name Fastin, ®SmithKline Beecham Inc., a low-level 'drine not unlike Tenu-ate, though w/ more associated tooth-grinding.
_ None of these are Don Gately's terms.
_ In e.g. Boston: join Group, get Active, get phone #s, get sponsor, audio-call sponsor daily, hit meetings daily, pray like fiend for release from
Disease, don't kid self that you can still buy rodneys in liquor stores or date your dealer's niece or think for a second you can still hang out in bars
playing darts and just drinking Millennial Fizzies or vanilla Yoo-Hoos, etc.
_ Volunteer Counselor Eugenio ('Gene') M. favors entomologic tropes and analogies, which is especially effective with brand-new residents fresh
from subjective safaris through the Kingdom of Bugs.
_ Don G.'s North Shore's vulgate signifier for trite/banal is: limp.
_ Likewise that his private term for blacks is niggers, which is unfortunately still all he knows.
_ The speaker doesn't actually use the terms thereon, most assuredly, or operant lim-bic system, though she really had, before, said chordate
phylum.
_ Sic.
134
   E.g. see Ursula Emrich-Levine (University of California-Irvine), 'Watching Grass Grow While Being Hit Repeatedly Over the Head With a Blunt
Object: Fragmentation and Stasis in James O. Incandenza's Widower, Fun with Teeth, Zero-Gravity Tea Ceremony, and Pre-Nuptial Agreement of
Heaven and Hell,' Art Cartridge Quarterly, vol. Ill, nos. 1-3, Year of the Perdue Wonderchicken.
  135
      TRANSCRIPT-FRAGMENT FROM INTERVIEW SERIES FOR PUTATIVE
  MOMENT MAGAZINE SOFT PROFILE ON PHOENIX CARDINAL
  PROFESSIONAL PUNTER O. J. INCANDENZA, BY PUTATIVE MOMENT
  MAGAZINE SOFT-PROFILE-WRITER HELEN STEEPLY, 3 NOVEMBER Y.D.A.U. 'Q.'
  'Well, there are odd sorts of consolations in having somebody go progressively bats in front of your eyes, such as for example sometimes The
Mad Stork would go off on things in sort of a funny way. We always thought he was funny a good bit of the time.
  'You've got to remember he came at entertainment more from an interest in lenses and light. Most arty directors I think get more abstract as
they go on. With him it was the opposite. A lot of his funniest stuff was very abstract. Are those earrings real copper? Can you wear real copper?'
  ·Q.'
  'You've got to remember that he came out of all these old artish directors that were really "ne pas a la mode" anymore by the time he broke in,
not just Lang and Bresson and Deren but the anti-New Wave abstracters like Frampton, wacko Nucks like Godbout, anticonfluential directors like
Dick and the Snows who not only really belonged in a quiet pink room somewhere but were also self-consciously behind the times, making all sorts
of heavy art-gesture films about film and consciousness and isness and diffraction and stasis et cetera. Most extremely beautiful women Pve ever
met complain of getting a sort of itchy green crust when they wear real copper. So the tenure-jockeys and critics who were hailing this millennial
new Orthochromatic Neorealism thing as the real new avant-garde thing were getting tenure by blasting Dick and Godbout and the flying Snow
Brothers and The Stork for trying to be avant-garde, when really they were self-consciously trying to be more like après-garde. I never did get
straight on what Orthochromatic means, but it was very trendy. But The Mad Stork talked a lot about intentional atavism and retrogradism and
stasis. Plus the academics who hated him hated the artificial sets and the chiaroscuro lighting, which the Stork had a total fetish for weird lenses
and chiaroscuro.
    'After the thing about the Medusa and the Odalisque came out, and The Joke, and the film-establishment theory-queers were holding their noses
and saying Incandenza's still mired in this late-century self-referencing unentertaining formalism and unrealistic abstraction, after a while Himself,
The Stork, in his own progressively bats way, decided to get revenge. He planned a lot of it out at McLean Hospital, which's out in Belmont, which
is where Himself had almost his own private reserved room, by then. He made up a genre that he considered the ultimate Neorealism and got
some film-journals to run some proc-lamatory edictish things he wrote about it, and he got Duquette at M.I.T. and a couple other younger tenure-
jockeys who were in on it to start referring and writing little articles in journals and quarterlies about it and talking at art openings and avant-garde
theater and film openings, feeding it into the grapevine, hailing some new movement they called Found Drama, this supposedly ultimate
Neorealism thing that they all declared was like the future of drama and cinematic art, etc.
    'Because I'm thinking if you like copper stuff and little Aztec suns there's a small place down in Tempe where I know the owner and he has some
incredible little copper pieces we could parp down and have you look at. My own theory is it takes an incredible natural complexion to be able to
wear the baser metals, though it might just be an allergy-thing, the way some women react and some don't.'
    'Q.'
    'What Found Drama was -- and you've got to keep in mind that Duquette and a Brandeis critic named like Posener who was in on the revenge
each got a mammoth grant for this, and The Mad Stork got two smaller ones somewhere, grants, to go cross-country to graduate film programs
giving turgid theoretical deadly-serious lectures on this Found Drama, and then they'd come back up home to Boston and The Stork and the couple
critics would lay up drunk and invent new Found-Drama theoretical lectures and chortle and laugh till there was evidence it was time for Himself to
go back to detox again.'
    'Q.'
    'Like a family nickname. Hal and I either called him Himself or The Sad Stork. The Moms was the first to say Himself, which I think is a Canadian
thing. Hal mostly said Himself. God knows what Mario used to call him. Who knows. I said Mad, The Mad Stork.'
    'Q.'
    'No see there weren't any real cartridges or pieces of Found Drama. This was the joke. All it was was you and a couple cronies like Leith or
Duquette got out a metro Boston phone book and tore a White Pages page out at random and thumbtacked it to the wall and then The Stork
would throw a dart at it from across the room. At the page. And the name it hit becomes the subject of the Found Drama. And whatever happens
to the protagonist with the name you hit with the dart for like the next hour and a half is the Drama. And when the hour and a half is up, you go
out and have drinks with critics who like chortlingly congratulate you on the ultimate in Neorealism.'
    'Q.'
    'You do whatever you want during the Drama. You're not there. Nobody knows what the name in the phone book's doing.'
    'Q.'
    'The joke's theory was there's no audience and no director and no stage or set because, The Mad Stork and his cronies argued, in Reality there
are none of these things. And the protagonist doesn't know he's the protagonist in a Found Drama because in Reality nobody thinks they're in any
sort of Drama.'
    'Q.'
    'Almost nobody. That's a very good point. Almost nobody. I'm going to take a chance and just tell you I'm a little bit intimidated here.'
    'Q.'
    'I'm worried this might sound sexist or offensive. I've been around very, very beautiful women before, but I'm not accustomed to them being
really acute and sharp and politically savvy and penetrating and multilevelled and intimidatingly intelligent. I'm sorry if that sounds sexist. It's
simply been my experience. I'll go ahead and simply tell you the truth and take the chance that you might think I'm some kind of stereotypical
Neanderthal athlete or sexist clown.'
    'Q.'
'Absolutely no, no, nothing got recorded or filmed. Reality being camera-free, being the joke I'll again underline. Nobody even knew what the guy
in the phone book had been doing, nobody knew what the Drama had been. Although they liked to speculate when they'd go out after the time
was up to have drinks and pretend to review how the Drama went. Himself usually imagined the guy was sitting there watching cartridges, or
counting some pattern in his wallpaper, or looking out the window. It wasn't impossible maybe even the name you hit with the dart was somebody
dead in the last year and the phone book hadn't caught up, and here was this guy who was dead and just a random name in a phone book and the
subject of what people for a few months -- until Himself couldn't keep a straight face anymore or had had enough revenge on the critics, because
the critics were hailing -- not just the critics in on the joke, but actual tenure-jockeys who were getting tenure to assess and dismiss and hail --
they were hailing this as the ultimate in avant-garde Neorealism, and saying maybe The Stork deserved reappraisal, for a Drama with no audience
and oblivious actors who might have moved away or died. A certain Mad Stork got two grants out of it and later made a lot of enemies because he
refused to give them back after the hoax was like unveiled. The whole thing was kind of bats. He spread the grant money for Found Drama around
a couple of local improvisation companies. It's not like he kept the money. It's not like he needed it. I think he especially liked the idea that the star
of the show might have already moved away or recently died and there was no way to know.'
136
     See for example Incandenza's first narrative collaboration w/ Infernatron-Canada, the animated Pre-Nuptial Agreement of Heaven and Hell,
made at the acknowledged height of his anticonfluential period -- B.S. Private Release, L.M.P.
137
     The festivity here being due largely to the fact that both he and Gerhardt Schtitt returned from putting on little E.T.A. presentations at various
tennis clubs too late to have been informed about the degenerative Eschaton free-for-all and serious Lord-, Ingersoll-, and Penn-injuries, both
trainer Barry Loach and prorector Rik Dunkel having told Avril, and Schtitt to be told by whichever of Nwangi and deLint first works up the pluck,
and the issue of telling Tavis being as would be S.O.P. left up to Avril, who will -- because Tavis has already lost a certain amount of sleep
preparing emotionally and rhetorically for the impending arrival of putative Moment journalist 'Helen' Steeply, whom he's been convinced to let onto
the grounds by Avril's argument that the Moment office promises the profile's subject and inevitable hype involve only an E.T.A. alumnus (Avril
neglected to tell Tavis she was pretty sure it was Orin) and that a certain amount of soft-news-publicity for E.T.A.-qua-institution couldn't hurt in
either the fundraising- or the recruiting-goodwill department -- who will almost certainly wait and tell Tavis (who's in far too festive a mood to
notice three or four younger kids ominously absent from the supper and gala) in the morning, if the poor man's to have a chance at any real sleep
at all (also giving Avril time to figure out how upperclass heads can roll, as of course they must, given chaos and season-ending injuries under the
direct gaze of designated Big Buddies, without those heads including that of Hal, who -- unlike, thank God, John -- was identified at the scene with
that Pemulis person). Hal can tell just by the dining hall's emotional gestalt that neither Schtitt nor Tavis knows about the Eschaton, but the Moms
is next to impossible to read, and Hal won't know whether she's been told of the debacle until he is able to pry Mario away from Anton (The
Boogerman') Doucette and get the Moms-skinny right from Booboo direct, after the film.
138
     Troeltsch wears an InterLace Sports baseball cap, and Keith Freer a two-horned operatic Viking helmet along with his leather vest, and Fran
Unwin a fez, and fierce little Josh Gopnik the white beanie with the dirty cart-wheel-track across it from this afternoon's debacle. Tex Watson wears
a tan Stetson with a really high crown, and little Tina Echt an outlandishly large plaid beret that covers half her little head, the Vaught twins a
freakish bowler with two domes and one brim, Stephan Wagenknecht a plastic sallet -- this is just scanning at random; the headwear goes on and
on, a whole topography of hats -- and Carol Spodek a painter's cap with the name of a paint company, and Ber-nadette Longley a calpac that
obstructs the view of people behind her. Duncan van Slack in a harquebus w/ buckle. Should probably also mention Avril's wearing a Fukoama
microfiltration mask, it being way too early in the day for supper for her anyway. Ortho Stice wears a calotte and the U.S.S. Millicent Kent a slanted
noir-style fedora and Tall Paul Shaw, way in back, a conquistadorial helmet and escudo, and Mary Esther Thode a plain piece of cardboard propped
on her head that says HAT. Idris Arslanian's spectacular bearskin shako is held in place with a chinstrap.
139
     (I.e. silk-suited Vocalists snapping their fingers and telling their casino audiences they were beautiful human beings and but when it comes time
to actually start crooning the Vocalists' lips move but nothing Velvety emerges, all sound withheld, a Job Action, rendered even more chilling by the
skill with which the Frankies and Tonies lip-synch to utter silence -- and the way the beautiful casino audiences, hit someplace they lived,
somehow, clearly, responded with near-psychotic feelings of deprivation and abandonment, became a mob, almost tore lounges down, upended
little round tables, threw free ice-intensive drinks, audiences in their well-heeled majority behaving like dysfunctional or inadequately nurtured
children.)
140
     The years right around the millennium being a terrible U.S. time for waste, then, ozone-wise and landfill-wise and shoddily-disposed-of-dioxins-
wise, w/ DT-cycle annular fusion at the stage where they had the generating-massive-amounts-of-high-R-waste part down a lot more pat than the
consuming-the-waste-in-a-nuclear-process-whose-own-waste-was-the-fuel-for-the-first-waste-intensive-phase-of-the-circle-of-reactions part.
141
     Actual term employed is downer-type.
142
     A lightless and eye-averted late-night weight room being not exactly a last-name type of place.
143
     Sometimes it's as straightforward as directing someone to give her fiance the roundhouse forehand slap she's been secretly aching to give him
ever since he'd once teased her about putting some Band-Aids on those insect bites on her chest.
144
     = the anticoníluental Cage HI -- Free Show; q.v. Note 24 supra.
145
     The Medusa wears a kind of chain-mail backless evening gown and Hellenic sandals, the Odalisque a Merry Widow.
146
     Mario's speculative puppet-show comes down maybe a little hard on the implication that former O.C.D.-support-group-sponsor and later Clean
U.S. Party campaign manager and now O.U.S. Chief Rodney P. Tine is the real dark force behind Reconfiguration and New England's de-mapping
and the transfer of the Great Concavity, that Johnny Gentle, Famous Crooner was and remains a slightly unbent but basically genial and befuddled
figurehead, content mostly to twirl his mike and immolate his epidermis so long as his office is clean and his food's pre-tasted, and that it's actually
been Tine behind C.U.S.P.'s geopolitical anality and Experialism, and that Tine was essentially pulling Gentle's strings all through the Concavity
Cabinet and subsequent Reconfiguration and mass relocation. This is, in point of fact, simply one theory and direction for finger-pointing, and tends
to founder on the unexplained issue of just what would motivate Tine to undertake all this anyway, since his own O.C.D. has been documented to
be ruminative rather than hygienic, not to mention the fact that he's hopelessly smitten with the Québecer Luria P------. J. O. Incandenza's own
ONANtiad, being an adult production, was considerably more restrained and ambiguous on the whole Tine-as-dark-force issue.
147
     An oblique little in-tribute from Mario to the Moms, at which line every year Avril at the Headmaster's Table takes off the witch's hat and holds it
by the brim and whips it around in an enthused circle three times over her head.
148
     The umpires on the U.S. junior tour tend to be retired high-school principals whose only renumeration is the chance to exercise again some
slight authority over the young.
149
     Clipperton eventually perfecting the toss-with-the-same-hand-you-serve-with maneuver pioneered by South African doubles specialist Colin van
der Hingle after a hideous turbo-prop-charter-aircraft-propeller accident took off his right arm, ear, and sideburn in only the second year of his
Show career, in Durban.
    150
        Certain other and doubtless really disturbing footage of Clipperton's suicide still exists, having -- with perhaps half a dozen other emotionally
or professionally sensitive cartridge-Masters -- been designated Unviewable by testatory codicil and, as far as either Hal or Orin knows, enclosed in
some sort of vault-apparatus that only Himself's attorneys and maybe Avril have access to. As far as can be determined, only those lawyers, Avril,
Disney Leith, and perhaps Mario know that the cartridges were, in fact, along with his case of special lenses, interred right there with J. O.
Incandenza's dead bodya -- yickily enough -- there having been room in the bronze casket only because Incandenza's extreme height dictated a
casket-size that his thin physique didn't nearly fill the width and depth of.
a. (in the Mondragon-family-plot area of Le Cimetière du St. Adalbert in the now over-lush potato-growing country off Provincial Autoroute 204 in
L'Islet Province, Quebec, just over the border from what is now the eastern Concavity, such that the funeral had to be delayed and then rushed to
be fit in between annulation-cycles)
151
     The other having been that predictive call for the catatonic hero, also for Ogilvie's Entertainment 2-termer.
152
     Every Nielsen respondent seemed to respond with especial neural repulsion to one or another particular portrait. There was one of a woman
with every carpenter's tool known to God exiting her face. One of a young male with a spear of scarlet light through the right temple and coming
clear out the other side. A woman with her crown between the incisors of some sort of shark so huge it passes from view past the frame. A grand-
motherly type with roses, human hands, a pencil, and other lush-type flora all coming serpentine out of her open skull's top. A head coming out in
a long string from a throttled tube of paste; a Talmudic scholar bearded in needles; a Baconian pope with his hat on fire. Three or four dental ones
that sent people scrambling to the bathroom to floss themselves bloody. The painting that had particularly nailed nine-year-old Hal and had had
him popping Nunhagen compulsively until his ears started ringing and didn't stop for almost a week had been of a deeply parlor-tanned and
vaguely familiar upscale male, a disembodied fist yanking a handful of brains out of the guy's left ear while the guy's overhealthy face, like most of
the ad's faces, wears a queer look of intense unhappy concentration, one more of like brooding than conventionally expressive of pain.
153
     NoCoat Inc. ended up occupying the #346 spot vacated by Hoechst's CBS, Hal noted with surprisingly little irony.
154
     Granted that this stuff is all grossly simplified in Hal's ephebic account; Lace-Forché and Veals are in fact transcendent geniuses of a particularly
complex right-time-and-place sort, and their appeals to an American ideology committed to the appearance of freedom almost unanalyzably
compelling.
155
     Granted, pace critics, this was partly to forestall A.C.D.C.'s apellate-court claims that InterLace was basically hopping up and down on the B.S.
1890 Sherman Act with spike heels.
156
     'Reduced Instruct-Set Computers,' descendents of the IBM/Apple 'Power PCs,' with mainframe-caliber response-time and .25 terabytes of DRAM
and numerous expansion-slots for various killer apps.
157
     A couple of Incandenza's more accessible early documentaries were bought by Inter-Lace on a distribution-factored contingency basis, but
except for a flat PBS-ish one on the lay priciples of DT-annulation they never brought Meniscus/Latrodectus more than a fraction of the interest on
the interest from Himself's rearview-mirror fortune. InterLace ended up optioning rights to only a couple of his higherbrow productions for its
'Howls from the Margin' low-volume-expectation product-line during Himself's lifetime; the bulk of his stuff didn't make any ILT menus until after
his untimely death.
158
     It didn't do J. Gentle F.C.'s original grass-roots-intensive campaign a whole lot of good around ultra-liberal Enfield that one of his earliest sign-
carrying faithful had been E.T.A.'s own Gerhardt Schtitt, who politically listed so far to starboard that even people without watches looked at their
watches and referred vaguely to just-recalled appointments whenever Schtitt's eyes got a certain particular navy-blue cast and he uttered any one
of such terms as America, decadence, State, or Law; but Mario I. was pretty much the only one clued in to the fact that Schtitt's attraction to
Gentle had more to do with Schtitt's take on tennis than anything else: the Coach was swept away with the athleto-Wagnerian implications of
Gentle's proposals for waste, this business of sending from yourself what you hope will not return.
159
     Triaminotetralin, a synthesized hallucinogen whose high transdermal bioavailability makes it a popular ingredient in the 'Happy Patches' so
prevalent in the American West and Southwest of Subsidized Time -- Pharmochemical Quarterly 17, 18 (Spring, Year of the Trial-Size Dove Bar)
provides a detailed account of the synthesis and transdermal physiochemistry of aminotetralins in general.
160
    Québecois French: 'working up steam.'
161
    'Homestyle. Ready to Serve.'
162
    'Pursuit of happiness.'
163
    Q.v. Note 304 sub.
164
    'Absolutely no bonking,' presumably.
165
    The both-hands-full logistics of which are hard to envision, but realism wasn't really the point of the image for the bitter Brigade boys.
166
    It's also where Mario's most derivative of Himself, whose own ONANtiad was more centrally concerned with doomed high-office claymation
romance than with political comment, though the love thing in Incandenza Sr.'s film had concerned not Tine and a Québecois fatale but an alleged
doomed and unconsummated affair between President J. Gentle and the equally hygiene-and-germ-obsessed wife of Canada's 'Minister of Environ-
ment and Resource-Development Enterprises,' the affair presented as doomed and unconsummated because the Minister hires a malevolent young
Canadian Candida albicans specialist to induce in his wife a severe and more or less permanent yeast infection, driving both wife and Gentle to
ardent-desire-v.-hygienic-neurosis breakdowns during which the wife throws herself across the tracks in front of a Québecois bullet-train and Gentle
decides to exact his revenge on a macrocartographic scale. The ONANtiad was not Him-self's strongest effort by a long shot, and pretty much
everybody around E.T.A. agrees that Mario's own Reconfiguration-explanation-parody is funnier and more accessible than Himself's, if also a bit
heavier-handed.
167
    The officially spun term for making Canada take U.S. terrain and letting us dump pretty much everything we don't want onto it is Territorial
Reconfiguration. Great Concavity and Grand Convexité are more like U.S./Canadian street argot that got adopted and genericized by the media.
168
    A more abstract but truer epigram that White Flaggers with a lot of sober time sometimes change this to goes something like: 'Don't worry
about getting in touch with your feelings, they'll get in touch with you.'
169
    Presumably North Shore AA meetings, but Gately never recollects hearing the word AA; all he remembers from the time is just 'Meetings' and a
Diagnosis he'd construed as chivalric.
170
    But Avril had gotten former M.I.T. #1 Men's Singles Corbett Thorp to drive Mario down to V.F. Rickey's cerebral Student Union thing, where
Thorp used his old student I.D. (thumb over expiration date) to get them past the Security lady at the Rectus Bulbi and down to the YYY studio's
freezing pink basement, where the only person who didn't talk like an angry cartoon character, a severely carbuncular man at the engineer's board,
would by way of comment point only at a tripartite onionskin screen that stood folded beneath a handless wall-clock, possibly signifying that no
hiatus could be all that long if the absent party hadn't taken her trusty screen. Mario hadn't had any idea M.P.'d used a screen, on-air. That's when
he'd gotten agitated.
171
    Corbett Thorp's sobriquet among the less kind kids is 'Th-th-th-th.'
172
    Known also sometimes as 'Pukers.'
173
    The dull-metal Kenkle & Brandt kind, not the white plastic industrial-solvent buckets associated with Eschaton and yesterday's debacle.
174
    Moving fast in one direction and having the ball hit someplace behind you and having to try to stop and reverse direction very quickly is known
also as a 'wrong-foot' or 'contre-pied,' and it results in a fair number of injuries to junior knees and ankles; ironically enough it's Hal, since the
explosion, who's known as the real E.T.A. master of placement and opponent-yanking-around and the old contre-pied. Also a quick insertion that
Dennis van der Meer, father of Side-to-Sides, was a Dutch immigrant low-level pro who became a major pro coach and tennis-education-theory
guru, on the same level with like a Harry Hopman or Vic Braden.
175
    Stice's legendarily dysfunctional parents are in Kansas, but he's got two vaguely lesbianic maiden aunts or great-aunts or something up in
Chelsea who keep bringing him foods the staff won't let him eat.
176
    Serious juniors never pick up tennis balls with their hands. Males tend to bend down and dribble the balls up with the face of their stick; there
are various little substyles of this. Females and some younger males less into bending stand and trap the ball between their shoe and racquet and
bring their foot up in a quick little twitch, the stick bringing the ball up with it. Males who do this trap the ball against the inside of the shoe, while
females trap the ball against the outside of the shoe, which looks a bit more feminine. Reverse-snobbism at E.T.A. has never reached the point of
people bending way down and picking balls up manually, which, like wearing a visor, is regarded as the true sign of the novice or hack.
177
    N.b.: Europeans and Australians refer to overheads as 'overhands,' while South Africans sometimes also call them 'pointers.'
178
    The budget doesn't allow for communal suppers on weekends, and the weekly menu has below SATR and SUND the word forage, which with a
certain percentage of this fall's residents ends up being literal.
179
    Expanding where appropriate on Note 12: Demerol is meperidine hydrochloride, a Schedule C-II synthetic narcotic, available from Sanofi
Winthrop Laboratories in banana-flavored syrup; 25, 50, 75, and 100 mg./ml. cartridge-needle units; and (most popular w/ D.W.G.) the 50 and 100
mg. tablets known up on the Shore as Pebbles and Barn-Bam, respectively. (DôcD of course means Drunk and Disorderly, and P.D. and P.O.
respectively mean Public Defender and Probation Officer or 'Probie,' by the way.)
180
    If somebody dies during the commission of a felony, even from so much as a defective pacemaker or a lightning bolt, the felon's facing Murder-
2 and unbargainable time, at least in MA, a ghastly statutory provision as far as most active drug addicts are concerned, since even though they're
not violence-oriented, efficiency and safety-consciousness are not exactly hallmarks of addiction-motivated crimes, which tend to be impulsive and
fuzzily thought out at best.
181
    Also known as a case being 'Blue-Filed,' meaning put in a kind of judicial limbo for a specified period, and reopenable ('Red-Filed') at any time
P.O.s and Boards decide the defendant isn't making 'satisfactory progress.'
182
    She didn't literally say shitstorm.
183
    Gately didn't get any of this from Pat Montesian; it's mostly like Ennet House mythology, with some hard facts from Gene M. and Calvin Thrust,
both of whom think Pat M. just about hung the moon.
184
    A totally different thing than Volkmann's contracture (cf. Note 115).
185
    Which he had to make a fucking Financial Amend to have fixed, which luckily semi-Crocodile Sven R. was a refinisher and voluntarily fixed the
crack with some weird fake-wood-resin, so Gately only had to pay for the tube of fake-wood-resin instead of a whole new institutional table.
186
    E.g. 'Kid, sobriety's like a hard-on: the minute you get it, you want to fuck with it'; they'd rattle this kind of stuff off; they had a million of them.
187
    (Never yet having checked the side of a box of pasta for possible directions.)
188
    Project MK-Ultra, U.S.-C.I.A. inception 4/3/B.S.53: 'The central activity of the MK-Ultra program was conducting and funding brainwashing
experimentation with dangerous drugs and other techniques [sic] performed on persons who were not volunteers by C.I.A. Technical Service
Division employees, agents, and contractors.' -- Civil Action #80-3163, Orlikow et al. v. United States of America, B.S. 1980.
189
    Alprazolam, Upjohn Inc.'s big hat-throw into the benzodiazepine ring, only Schedule C-IV but wickedly dependence-producing, w/ severe
unpleasant abrupt-withdrawal penalties.
190
    Ennet House near-alumnus Chandler Foss's analysis, which you can bet was developed outside Gately's earshot.
191
    Another vestige: Gately still always automatically notices bars and mesh, the foil and little magnetic contacts of residential alarms, plunger-
buttons on the inside of hinges, etc.
192
    Local argot for Storrow Drive, which runs along the Charles from the Back Bay out to Alewife, with multiple lanes and Escherian signs and On-
and Off-ramps within car-lengths of each other and no speed limit and sudden forks and the overall driving experience so forehead-drenching it's in
the metro Police Union's contract they don't have to go anywhere near it.
193
    Whether English misspelling or Québecois solecism, sic.
194
    Jolly-Jolt® hand-buzzers, Whoopi-Daisy® (celebrity-endorsed) cushions, Blammo® cigars, Oh, Waiter® plastic-ice-cubes-w/-fly, I See
London!® X-ray specs, etc. usually just trucked over, along w/ the Saprogenic Greetings® treacly greeting and postcards, from the Waltham
facilities of Acme Inc., a.k.a. 'The Acme Family of Gags 'N Notions, Pre-Packaged Emotions, Jokes and Surprises and Wacky Disguises,' at a
substantial and politically motivated discount, seeing that the company's owned by the Quebec-sympathetic shadowy Albertan mogul who'd been
such a force in the anti-broadcast A.C.D.C., and who over a decade back had exploited the then-U.S.-owned then-Acme's severe PR and cash-flow
problems right after the serial Blammo Cigar tragedies to move in and hostile t/o the firm for about 30% of its real worth.
195
    Unknown to the hapless Antitois, this doesn't mean they're necessarily blank. Copy-Capable cartridges, a.k.a. Masters, require a 585-r.p.m.-drive
viewer or TP to run, and on a conventional 450-drive decline to give off so much as static, appearing rather empty and blank. Q.v. here Note 301
sub.
196
    Being out of the sociolinguistic loop, L.A. has no way of knowing that 'To hear the squeak' is itself the very darkest of contemporary Canada's
euphemisms for sudden and violent de-mapping.
197
    L.A. having a pretty good intuition that the lone communicable 'va chier, putain!' wouldn't be a good idea in this context.
198
    From Ch. 16, 'The Awakening of My Interest in Annular Systems,' in The Chill of Inspiration: Spontaneous Reminiscences by Seventeen Pioneers
of DT-Cycle Lithiumized Annular Fusion, ed. Prof. Dr. Günther Sperber, Institut fur Neutronenphysik und Reak-tortechnik, Kernforschungszentrum
Karlsruhe, U.R.G., available in English in ferociously expensive hardcover only, © Y.T.M.P. from Springer-Verlag Wien NNY.
199
    E.g.: Ted Schacht adjusting his wristbands and sash. Carol Spodek stretching for a volley at net, her whole body distended, face grim and full of
cords. An old one of Marlon Bain at the follow-through of a big forehand, a corona of sweat shimmering around him, his bigger arm crossed across
his throat. Ortho Stice doing a handstand. Yardguard gliding down through a low backhand. Wayne this summer sliding on Rome's fine clay, a red
cloud hiding everything below the knees. Pemulis and Stice standing cross-armed against desert light and a fence. Shaw without his silly wispy
pseudo-Newcombe mustache. The photos have been looked at so often they're pale. Hal at the height of his toss, knees more bent than he'd like.
Wayne holding up a silver plate. The European-contingent males three summers past all lined up outside a square van with its steering wheel on
the wrong side, somebody with either two or three fingers held up over Axford's head. Schtitt addressing kids you can only see the backs of. Todd
Possalthwaite shaking a small black kid's hand at net. Troeltsch pretending to interview Felicity Zweig. The Vaught twins sharing a foot-long frank
at a stand at the Bronx's U.S. Jr. Open. Todd Possalthwaite at the net with a P.W.T.A. kid. Every muscle in Amy Wingo's front leg ridged as she
gets a little ahead of herself on a backhand. On and on. They're not in a straight line; they're more like chaotically placed. Heath Pearson, former
tow-truck shareholder, now at Pepperdine, facing away from the camera, under Lung-light, running. The Palmer Academy courts looking cheesy in
the heat. A lot of the photos are stills from Mario. Peter Beak falling nastily after a stretch-volley, both feet off what looks like Longwood's synthetic
grass. The photos surrounded by locationless clouds and sky. Freer in the bleachers at Brisbane in thongs and a tank-top, giving the camera a
peace-sign. The Lung in mid-assembly with Pearson and Penn and Vandervoort and Mackey and the rest of that year's seniors out in the pavilion's
webbed chairs, feet up in the cold, kibbitzing Hal and Schacht and the other kids lugging parts. One of Mrs. Clarke's cooks in a hairnet mixing
something with an arm-sized pestle in a bowl she has to tilt to hold. None of Mario or Orin. A battalion of kids in sweats doing sprints up the hill in
deep snow, two or three well behind and ominously bent over. Some lighter-blue rectangles where pictures have been taken down and not yet
replaced. A shirtless Freer playing microtennis with Lori Clow. A close-up of bespectacled Gretchen Holt staring in disbelief at a linesman's call.
Wayne and a Manitoban in T-shirts with leaves on them, hands over their hearts, facing north. Kent Blott with a horrified boomerang mouth and his
nose a protrusion in the supporter fit over his ears and nose and Traub and Lord collapsing around him in either hilarity or horror. Hal and Wayne
at the net in doubles, both leaning way over left like the whole court's tilted.
200
    Hal and Mario have long since had to accepta the fact that Avril, at 50+, is still endocrinologically compelling to males.
a. 'Accept' isn't the same as 'be crazy about,' of course.
201
    As with the neuro-gastric thing, only Ted Schacht and Hal know that Pemulis's deepest dread is of academic or disciplinary expulsion and
ejection, of having to schlepp back down Comm. Ave. into blue-collar Allston diploma- and ticket-outless, and now in his final E.T.A. year the
dread's increased many-fold, and is one reason Pemulis takes such elaborate precautions in all extracurriculars -- making a Substance-customer
explicitly suborn him, etc. -- and is why Hal and Schacht presented him on his last birthday with the poster over Pemulis's room's console that has
a careworn large-crowned King sitting on his throne stroking his chin and brooding, with the caption: YES, I'M PARANOID -- BUT AM I PARANOID
ENOUGH?
202
    Though it's unmentioned, everyone in the waiting room except Ann Kittenplan is keenly aware that Lord and Postal Weight are Pemulis's
charges, Penn and Ingersoll Ax-handle's; plus that neither Struck nor Troeltsch seems to have been summoned for potential discipline.
203
    Since tennis courts are laid side to side and played on by hard-hitting but fallible humans, errant shots are always going off sticks' frames and
net-posts and even fences and bouncing and rolling into other people's territory. In starting at usually the quarterfinal rounds of serious
tournaments there are ballboys to retrieve them. In early rounds and practice, though, the delicate etiquette is that you suspend play and get other
people's balls for them, if they come rolling across, and shoot them back over to the court of origin. The way to signal for this sort of help is to yell
'Sorry!' or 'A little help on Three?' or something. But both Hal and Axford seem constitutionally incapable of doing this, asking for help with errant
balls. They both have to hold everything and go and run all the way over to some other court, halting at each intervening court to wait for a point
to be finished, to get their own balls. It's a curious inability to request aid that no amount of negative reinforcement from Tex Watson or Aubrey
deLint can seem to correct.
204
    Where it's a non-overhead run-back-to-the-baseline-after-an-offensive-lob-then-run-all - the - way - back - up - and - tap - the - netcord - with -
your - stick - j ust - as - Nwangi - or - Thode-hits-another-offensive-lob-over-your-head-you-have-to-run-back-and-get-successfully-back-or-they-
pile-extra-lobs-onto-your-regular-allotment pure pain-fest.
205
    A Clipperton-level legend involves the now long-gone little E.T.A. who in Y.W.-Q.M.D. had called MA's Department of Social Services and
characterized disciplinary Pukers as child abuse, resulting in the appearance at the portcullis of two stitchy-mouthed and humorless D.S.S.-ladies
who hung creepily around all day and required Schtitt's actually confining Aubrey deLint to his room, so purply furious was deLint with the kid
who'd dropped the dime.
206
    No clue.
207
    Hal had missed out on the soft grass, clay, and Har-Tru surfaces of the Jr. Slams, because a singular disadvantage of attending a North
American academy is that O.N.A.N.T.A. rules for Jr. Slams permit just one entrant per academy in each age-division, and John Wayne got the nods.
208
    The late J. O. Incandenza's Meniscus Optical Products Ltd.'s development of those weird wide-angle rear-view mirrors on the sides of
automobiles that so diminish the cars behind you that federal statute requires them to have printed right on the glass that Objects In Mirror Are
Closer Than They Appear, which little imprints Incandenza found so disconcerting that he was kind of shocked when U.S. automakers and
importers bought rights on the mirrors, way back, for Incandenza's first unsettling entrepreneurial payday -- E.T.A.s like to postulate that the
mirrors had been inspired by the always-foreshortened Charles Tavis.
209
    Extremely annoying host of InterLace Spontaneous-Dissemm. children's program.
210
    ® CardioMed Fitness Products, a fourth-generation StairMasterish thing except set more to resemble a down-escalator somehow dickied to a
sadistically high number of r.p.m.s, so that the exerciser has to sort of run climbing for his life to avoid getting hurled backwards all the way across
the office by the machine, which is what accounts for the big square weight-room floor-mat attached to the cleared expanse of office wall opposite
the rear of the machine, which Tavis had moved up to from his StairMaster after a frightening cholesterol-count report, and had had kind of a tricky
time with at first, once requiring a back-brace.
211
    The Satellite pro Hal'd gotten a set from, a barrel-chested Latvian who thought Hal's name was AIL
212
    N.b. again that Marathe's native tongue is not good old contemporary idiomatic Parisio/European French but cont. id. Québecois French, which
is about on a par with Basque in terms of difficulty, being full of weird idioms and having both inflected and uninílected grammatical features, an
inbred and obstreperous dialect, and which in fact Steeply barely got an 'Acceptable' in, in U.S.O. technical-interview training in Vienna /
Falls Church VA, and which does not admit of easy coeval expression in English.
213
    Viz. at the allusion to the supposed samizdateur's anticonfluential and meta-entertainmentish and hologram-intensive Medusa-v.-Odalisque
thing, which in fact the play-within-film fight-scene part can be broken down into a series of what are called 'Fast Fourier Transforms,' though what
the hell 'ALGOL' is is anybody's guess, unless it's not an acronym but some actual Québecois term, 'I'algol,' which if so it isn't in any dictionaries or
on-line lexical sources anywhere in the 2nd or 3rd IL/IN Grid.
214
     Q.v. William James on '. .. that latent process of unconscious preparation often preceding a sudden awakening to the fact that the mischief is
irretrievably done,' the line that actually snapped Lenz to what he was up to when he chanced to read it in a huge large-print edition he'd found
behind a bookshelf along the north wall of the Ennet living room of something called The Principles of Psychology with The Gifford Lectures on
Natural Religion, by William James (obviously), available in EZC large-font print from Microsoft/NAL-Random House-Ticknor, Fields, Little, Brown
and Co., © Y.T.M.P., a volume that's come to mean a great deal to Lenz.
215
     ® The Mobil Chemical Co.'s Consumer Products Branch's Plastics Division, Pitts-ford NNY.
216
     ® Ibid.
217
     A.k.a. Haloperidol, McNeil Pharmaceutical, 5 mg./ml. pre-filled syringes: picture several cups of Celestial Seasonings' Cinnamon Soother tea
followed by a lead-filled sap across the back of the skull.
218
     National Security Agency, absorbed w/ A.T.F. and D.E.A., C.I.A. and O.N.R. and Secret Service into the ambit of the Office of Unspecified
Services.
219
     The A.A.O.A.A., Unspecified Services' most elite and least specific division, which on Hugh Steeply's latest field-assignment is paying his salary,
though his checks and alimony's garnishment are routed through something called the 'Foundation for Continental Freedom,' which one fervently
hopes is a shell/dummy.
220
     Charlestown/Southie street term for meters.
221
     Powdered vitamin B12, convincingly bitter and talc-textured, which Lenz has always preferred B12 to Manitol as a cut because Manitol gives him
this allergic thing where he got very tiny red bumps with weird pale caps on his fingertips.
222
     Hydrolysis is the metabolic process by which organic cocaine's broken down into benzoylecgonine, methanol, ecgonine, and benzoic acid, and
one reason not everybody is wired to enjoy Crosbulation is that the process is essentially toxic and can yield unpleasant neurosomatic fallout in
certain systems: e.g. in Don Gately's neurosystem, spider angiomas and a tendency to pluck at the skin on the backs of his hands, due to which
tendency he's always loathed and hated coke and most cokeheads; in Bruce Green's system, binocular nystagmus and a walloping depression even
while the coke-high's still on that accounts for the tendency toward fits of weeping with his nystagmic face hidden in the crook of his big right arm;
in Ken Erdedy an unstoppable rhinorrhagia that sent him to the Emergency Room both times he ever did cocaine; in Kate Gompert blepharospec-
ticity and now instant cerebral hemorrhage because she's on Parnate, an M. A.O.-inhibiting antidepressant; in Emil Minty a ballism so out-of-control
he snorted Bing only once. Hemispasms of the oral labia are a common effect of coke-hydrolysis, one mild enough so that people can get them and
still enjoy Bing very much; the spasming can range from a mild gnawing/writhing affect in Lenz, Thrale, Cortilyu, and Foss to an alternating series
of Edvard Munch-Jimmy Carter-Paliaccí-Mick Jagger-like expressive contortions so severe that everyone in a room except for them is embarrassed.
In former cokehead Calvin Thrust, hydrolysis had caused a priapism that led directly to his early choice of career. Randy Lenz also gets nystagmus,
but of the right eye only, as well as vascular constriction, diuresis extremus, phosphenism, compulsive tooth-grinding, megalomania, phobophobia,
euphoric recall, delusions of persecution and/or homicidal envy, sociosis, postnasal drip, a mild priapism that makes the diuresis a dicey and
gymnastic affair, occasional acne rosea and/or rhinophyma, and -- especially if there's synergism from almost a whole pack of filterless Winstons
and four cups of nipple-hardeningly strong and alkaline B.Y.P. coffee -- confabulation concurrent with a manic garrulousness sufficient to cause
lingual tendinitis, pulmonary phasece, and a complete inability to send from his presence anyone who seems at all willing to listen to him.
223
     A.k.a. lignocaine, xylocaine-L, a diethylamino-oxylidide compound used as a dental and maxillofacial anesthetic, the world's best Bing-cut
because it numbs and produces a bitter drip just like the Bingster, and also even temporarily heightens the rush of LV. coke, though if it's 'based it
tastes nothing like oxidized coke, and it's also more expensive than Manitol or B12 and harder to get because it's prescription, meaning the
orthodontist was a very popular fellow with dealers indeed.
    224
        TRANSCRIPT-FRAGMENTS FROM INTERVIEW SERIES FOR PUTATIVE MOMENT MAGAZINE SOFT PROFILE ON PHOENIX
    CARDINAL PROFESSIONAL PUNTER O. J. INCANDENZA, BY PUTATIVE MOMENT MAGAZINE SOFT-PROFILE WRITER
    HELEN STEEPLY --NOVEMBER Y.D.A.U.
    'I'm not going to talk about why I don't talk to the Moms anymore.' 'Q.' 'Or The Mad Stork's adventures in the mental-health community, either.'
    'Q.'
    'We're not off to a good start here, ma'am, no matter how lovely you're looking in that pantsuit.'
    'Q.'
    'Because the question doesn't mean anything is why. Insane is just like a catch-term, it doesn't describe anything, it isn't a reason for anything.
The Stork was a full-blown demented alcoholic for the last three years of his life, and he put his head in the microwave, and I think just in terms of
unpleasantness you'd have to be sort of insane to kill yourself in such a painful way. So but was he insane. In the last five years of his life he put
together a tennis academy and got together a national-caliber coaching staff and U.S.T.A. accreditation and sanction and multi-Grid funding and set
up the start of an endowment for E.T.A., and also came up with that new kind of window glass that doesn't fog or smudge from people touching it
or breathing on it and drawing little finger-oil faces on it, then sold it to Mitsubishi, and also managed the revenues from all his previous patents,
plus of course drank himself blind on a daily basis and then needed at least two hours to sit there naked under a scratchy blanket and shake, and
went around impersonating various kinds of health-care professionals during the periods he believed he was a health-care professional, from when
he had the delirium-tremen-type career delusions, and in his spare time made in-depth documentaries and a dozen art-films that people are still
writing doctoral theses on. So was he insane? It's true, the New Yorker guy, the film guy who replaced the guy who replaced Rafferty, what was
his name, it's true he kept saying the films were like the planet's most psychotic psyche working out its shit right there on the screen and asking
you to pay to watch him. But you have to remember that that guy got third-degree burned by the whole Found Drama scam. That guy was one of
the high-caliber critics who said in print that here Incandenza had put drama ahead three or four leaps in one visionary leap, and after The Stork
finally couldn't keep a straight face anymore and spilled the beans on NPR radio during a 'Fresh Air' dramaturgy-panel the New Yorker guy dropped
from critical sight for like a year and then when he came back he had it in for Himself in a very big way, which is understandable.'
    'Q.'
    'What I started to say is if quote unquote sources you cannot name say the reason I'm not in contact is I claim the Moms is insane, well, what is
insane supposed to mean. Do I trust her I do not. Do I want to be in association with her in any way -- that is a neg. Do I think she's irretrievably
bats? One of her best friends is the E.T.A. counselor, Rusk, with doctorates in both Gender and Deviance. Does she think the Moms is bats?'
    'Q.'
    'The criteria I was analogizing to The Stork is does the Moms function. And the Moms functions and then some. The Moms careers through the
day turboed and in fifth gear. You've got the assorted Deaning at E.T.A. You've got the full teaching load there. You've got accreditation reports
and structuring both quadrivium and trivium three years ahead of time at the start of every year. You've got writing prescriptive linguistics books
that come out every thirty-six months so you could set your watch by them. You've got grammatical conferences and conventions, which she
doesn't leave the grounds ever anymore but she's there videophonically rain or shine for them all. You've got the Militant Grammarians of
Massachusetts, which she co-founded with a couple quote cherished academic friends, also bats, where the M.G.M.s for instance go around to
Mass, supermarkets and dun the manager if the Express Checkout sign says 10 ITEMS OR LESS instead of OR FEWER and so on. The year before
The Mad Stork's death the Orange Crush people had an ad on billboards and little magazine-fall-out cards that said CRUSH: WITH A TASTE THAT'S
ALL IT'S O WN, with like a possessive /T¾ and I swear the M.G.M. squad lost their minds; the Moms spent five weeks going back and forth to NNY
City, organized two different rallies on Madison Avenue that got very ugly, acted as her own attorney in the suit the Crush people brought, never
slept, never once slept, lived on cigarettes and salad, huge salads always consumed very late at night, the Moms has a thing about never eating
until it's late.'
    'Q-'
    'Apparently it's the noise, she can't take urban noise, she says, is why Hallie says she hasn't set glass-slipper-one off the Grounds in -- you'd
have to ask Hallie. The Volvo was already up on blocks when I was at college downtown. But I know she went to The Stork's funeral, which was off
the grounds. Now she's got a tri-modem and videophony out the bazoo, though she'd never use a Tableau, I know.'
    'Q.'
    'Well it's been pretty obvious since early on out in Weston the Moms has O.C.D. Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder. The only reason she's never
been diagnosed or treated for it is that in her the Disorder doesn't prevent her from functioning. It all seems to come back to functioning.
Traversion is character, according to Schtitt. One guy I was close to at E.T.A. for years developed the kind of impairing O.C.D. where you need
treatment -- Bain wasted huge amounts of time on all these countless rituals of washing, cleaning, checking things, walking, had to have a T-
square on the court to make sure all the strings on his stick were intersecting at 90°, could only go through a doorway if he'd felt all around the
frame of the doorway by hand, checking the frame for God knows what, and then was totally unable to trust his senses and always had to recheck
the doorway he'd just checked. We had to physically carry Bain out of the locker room, before tournaments. Actually we've been close all our lives,
notwithstanding that Marlon Bain is the single sweatiest human being you'd ever want to get within a click of. I think the O.C.D. might have started
as a result of the compulsive sweat, which the sweat itself started after his parents were killed in a grotesque freak accident, Bain's. Unless the
strain of the constant rituals and fussing itself exaculates the perspiring. The Stork used Marlon in Death in Scarsdale, if you want to see way more
than you want to know about perspiration. But the E.T.A. staff indulged Bain's pathology about doorways because Schtitt's own mentor had been
pathologically devoted to this idea that you are what you walk between. It's so nice to be able to end a sentence with a preposition when it's
easier. Jesus I'm thinking usage again. This is why I avoid the topic of the Moms. The whole topic starts to infect me. It takes me days to clean
myself out of it. Traversion being character according to Schtitt. It takes a certain type of woman to look that good in a pantsuit, I think. I've
always --'
    'Q.'
    'I think the point being that with actual clinical Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder I had to watch much of my ex-doubles partner's life grind to a
halt because it'd take him three hours to shower and then another two to get out through the shower door. He was in this sort of paralysis of
compulsive motions that didn't serve any kind of function. The Moms, on the other hand, can function with the compulsions because she's also
compulsively efficient and practical about her compulsions. Whether this makes her more insane than Marlon Bain or less insane than Marlon Bain,
who can like say. As an instance the Moms solved a lot of her threshold-problems by having no real doors or doorways built on the first floor of
HmH so the rooms are all split off by angles and partitions and plants. The Moms kept to a Prussian bathroom-schedule so she couldn't spend
hours in there washing her hands until the skin fell off the way Bain's did, he had to wear cotton gloves the whole summer right before he left
E.T.A. The Moms for a while had video cameras installed so she could obsessively check whether Mrs. Clarke'd left the oven on or check her plants'
arrangement or whether all the bathroom towels are lined up with their fringes flush without physically checking; she had a little wall of monitors in
her study at HmH; The Stork put up with the cameras but the sense I get is that Tavis isn't going to be keen on being photorecorded in the
bathroom or anyplace else, so maybe she's had to have other recourse.3 You can check that yourself out there. What I'm trying to say is she's com-
pulsively efficient even about her obsessions and compulsions. Of course there are doors upstairs, lockable doors, but that's in service of other
compulsions. The Moms's. You can go ahead and ask her what I mean. She's so compulsive she's got the compulsions themselves arranged so
efficiently that she can get everything done and still have plenty of time left over for her children. These are a constant drain on her batteries. She's
got to keep Hal's skull lashed tight to hers without being so overt about it that Hallie has any idea what's going on, to keep him from trying to pull
his skull away. The kid's still obsessed with her approval. He lives for applause from exactly two hands. He's still performing for her, syntax- and
vocabulary-wise, at seventeen, the same way he did when he was ten. The kid is so shut down talking to him is like throwing a stone in a pond.
The kid has no idea he even knows something's wrong. Plus the Moms has to obsess over Mario and Mario's various challenges and tribulations and
little patheticnesses and worship Mario and think Mario's some kind of secular martyr to the mess she'd made of her adult life, all the while having
to keep up a front of laissez-faire laid-back management where she pretends to let Mario go his own way and do his own thing.'
    'Q-'
    'I'm not going to talk about it.'
    'Q.'
    'No and don't insult my intelligence, I'm not going to talk about why I don't want to talk about it. If this is going to be a Moment article, Hallie's
going to read it, and then he'll read it to Booboo, and I'm not talking about The Stork's death or the Moms's stability in a thing where they'll read
about it and have to read some authoritative report on my take on it instead of coming to their own terms about it. With it, rather. Terms with,
terms about. No, terms with it.'
         '...'
    'They both might have to wait until they get away from there before they can even realize what's going on, that the Moms is unredeemably
fucking bats. All these terms that became cliches -- denial, schizogenic, pathogenic family like systems and so on and so forth. A former
acquaintance said The Mad Stork always used to say cliches earned their status as cliches because they were so obviously true.'
    '...'
    'I never once saw the two of them fight, not once in eighteen domestic and Academy years, is all I'll say.' 'Q.'
    'The late Stork was the victim of the most monstrous practical joke ever played, in my opinion, is all I'll say.'
    'All right, I'll relate one antidoteb that might be more revealing of the Moms's emotional weather than any adjective. Jesus, see, I start explicitly
referring to parts of speech just thinking about the whole thing. The thing about people who are truly and malignantly crazy: their real genius is for
making the people around them think they themselves are crazy. In military science this is called Psy-Ops, for your info.'
         'Q.'
    'I'm sorry? Right then, one illustrative thing. Which thing to pick. Embarrassment of riches. I'll pick one at random. I think I was maybe twelve. I
was in 12's, I know, on that summer's tour. Though I was playing 12's when I was still ten. It was ten to thirteen that I was regarded as gifted,
with a tennis future. I began to decline around what should have been puberty. Call me let's say twelve. People were talking about NAFTA and
something called the quote Information Turnpike and there was still broadcast TV, though we had a satellite dish. The Academy wasn't even a
twinkle in anybody's eye. The Stork would disappear periodically when money came in. I think he kept going back up to Lyle in Ontario. Call me
age ten. We still lived in Weston, known also as Volvoland. The Moms gardened like a fiend out there. This was something else she had to do. Had
a thing about. Hadn't gone to indoor plants yet. Called the garden's crops her Green Babies. Wouldn't let us eat the zucchini. Never picked it, it got
monstrous and dry and fell off and rotted. Big fun. But her real thing was preparing the garden every spring. She started making lists and pricing
supplies and drafting outlines in January. Did I mention her own father had been a potato farmer, at one time a millionaire potato-baron-type
farmer, in Quebec?
    'But so it's early March. Are those earrings electric, or is it you? How come I've never seen those earrings up to now? I thought women who
could bring off copper earrings never wore anything but copper. You should see yourself in this light. Fluorescence isn't kind to most women. It
must take an exceptional kind --'
    'Q.'
    'In the Moms's family plot. St.-Quelquechose Quebec or something. Never been there. His will said only not anywhere near his own dad's plot.
Right near Maine. Heart of the Concavity. The Moms's home town's wiped off the map. Bad ecocycles, real machete-country. I'd have to try to
recall the town. But so but then so the Moms is out in the cold garden. It's March and it's co-wold. I've got this story down. I've related this
incident to several family-type professionals, and not one eyebrow stayed steady among them. This is the sort of antidote that makes pathogenic-
systems-pros' eyebrows go all the way up and over their skull and disappear down the back of their neck.'
    'So then I'm let's say thirteen, which means Hallie's four. The Moms is in the backyard garden, tilling the infamously flinty New England soil with
a rented Rototiller. The situation is ambiguous between whether it's the Moms steering the Rototiller or vice versa. The old machine, full of gas I'd
slopped through a funnel -- the Moms secretly believes petroleum products give you leukemia, her solution is to pretend to herself she doesn't
know what's wrong when the thing won't work and to stand there wringing her hands and let some eager-to-please thirteen-year-old puff out his
chest at being able to diagnose the problem, and then I pour the gas. The Rototiller is loud and hard to control. It roars and snorts and bucks and
my mother's stride behind it is like the stride of someone walking an untrained St. Bernard, she's leaving drunken staggery footprints behind her in
the tilled dirt, behind the thing. There's something about a very very tall woman trying to operate a Rototiller. The Moms is incredibly tall, way
taller than everybody except The Stork, who towered even over the Moms. Of course she'd be horrified if she ever brought herself to recognize
what she was doing, orchestrating a little kid into handling the gas that she thinks might be cancerous; she doesn't even know she's phobic about
gas. She's wearing two pairs of work-gloves and plastic surgery-type bags over her espadrilles, which were the only footwear she could garden in.
And a Fukoama microfiltration pollution mask, which you might remember those from that period. Her toes are blue in the dirty plastic bags. I'm a
few meters ahead of the Moms, in charge of preemptive rock- and clod-removal. That's her term. Preemptive rock- and clod-removal.
    'Now work with me, see this with me. In the middle of this tilling here comes my little brother Hallie, maybe like four at the time and wearing
some kind of fuzzy red pajamas and a tiny little down coat, and slippers that had those awful Nice-Day yellow smile-faces on both toes. We've been
at it maybe an hour and half, and the garden's dirt is just about tilled when Hal conies out and down off the pressure-treated redwood deck and
comes walking very steadily and seriously toward the border of the garden the Moms had surveyed out with little sticks and string. He has his little
hand out, he's holding out something small and dark and he's coming toward the garden as the Rototiller snorts and rattles behind me, dragging
the Moms. As he gets closer the thing in his hand resolves into something that just doesn't look pleasant at all. Hal and I look at each other. His
expression is very serious even despite that his lower lip is having a sort of little epileptic fit, which means he's getting ready to bawl. That's with a
w. I remember the air was gray with dust and the Moms had her glasses on. He holds the thing out toward the Moms's figure. I squint. The thing
covering his palm and hanging over the sides of the palm is a rhombusoid patch of fungus. Big old patch of house-mold. Underline big and old. It
must have come from some hot furnace-hidden corner of the basement, some corner she must have missed with the flamethrower, after the
flooding we had every January thaw. I heft a clod or rock, I'm staring, every follicle I've got is bunched and straining. You could feel the tension, it
was like standing down at Sunstrand Plaza when they fired the transformers, every follicle bunches and strains. It was a sort of nasal green, black-
speckled, hairy like a peach is hairy. Also some orange speckles. A patch of very bad-news-type mold. Hal looks at me in the noise, his lower lip all
over the place. He looks to the Moms, the Moms is intent on a plumb-straight Rototilled line, weaving. The piece is that the mold looks, like,
strangely incomplete. As in it dawns on me right then chewed on, Helen. And yes as I squint some sickening hairy stuff is still there like impacted in
the kid's front teeth and hairily smeared around the mouth.
    'Be there with me, Helen. Feel the sort of Wagnerish clouds gather. Hallie always said there was always this sense as a kid with the Moms that
the whole cosmos was just this side of fulminating into boiling clouds of elemental gas and was being held materially together only through heroic
exercise of will and ingenuity on the part of the Moms.
    'Everything slows waaay down. She's coming around with the machine at the end of a row and sees Hallie wearing his happy-slippers outside in
the cold, which just in itself is enough to gut-shot the cosmos as far as she's concerned, usually. Now we're seeing the Rototiller get shut down as
she bends way down to where I'd showed her the choke. The machine diesels a little and farts some blue smoke. The machine sucks the nub of its
starter-rope into itself. I can feel the voltage like I'm still there. Post-racket tingling quiet descends. There's the tentative chirp of a bird. The Moms
comes toward Hal standing there in his little red coat. She's tucking a wisp of hair back under the special plastic cap's elastic. Her hair at that time
was dark brown, she's addressing him, she has an unbelievably humiliating little family pet name for the kid that I'll show him the mercy of never
telling anybody.
    'But so she's coming over. Hal is standing there. Holds the horrific patch of fungus out. The Moms sees at first only her child holding something
out, and like all moms hardwired for motherhood she reaches to take whatever her baby holds out. The one sort of case where she wouldn't check
before reaching out toward something held out.'
    'Q.'
    'The Moms though now stops just inside the border of string and she squints, her glasses have dust, she starts to see and process just what it is
the kid's holding out to her. Her hand's outstretched in the air over the garden's string and she stops.
     'Hallie takes one step forward, arm up and out in a kind of like Nazi salute. He goes "I ate this."
    'The Moms says she begs his pardon.
    'Helen, you decide. But consider the fragility of the obsesso-compulsive's control. The terrible life-ruling phobias. Her four horsemen: enclosure,
communicational imprecision, and untidiness, which you can't get much untidier than basement-mold.'
    'Q.'
    'The fourth horseman stays hidden, of course, like in all quality eschatologies, the unturned card, under wraps till actual game-time.
    ' "I ate this" Hal goes, he's still holding the thing out, not crying, a kind of clinical grimness to him about it, like the mold's some audit it's his job
to show her. And do you want to know if she touched it?'
    'Q.'
    'It suddenly occurs to me that if you want stuff on the Moms and The Mad Stork you could contact Bain. He practically lived with us in Weston.
As like a secondary source. I'm sure he'd discuss the Moms's foibles all you want. The man still practically holds up a crucifix at any mention. His
little greeting-card company has just been bought up by a huge novelty concern, so I'm sure he's in his big room lying there having palm-fronds
waved and his forehead wiped, feeling flush and voluble. I guess I'd rather you didn't ask him about my foibles, but he's inexhaustible on the
subject of the Moms and O.C.D. He never leaves home, which home is one room, the converted Children's Reading Room of what used to be the
Waltham Public Library, which is the whole third floor. He learned from the Moms how to minimize doorways to traverse. I'm afraid he's not
InterNetted and has an O.C.D.-phobic thing about e-mail. His snail-mail address is Marlon K. Bain, Saprogenic Greetings Inc., BPL-Waltham Bldg.,
1214 Totten Pond Road, Waltham MA 021549872/4. It'd also be good if you could avoid mentioning the number 2 to him. He has problems with
the number 2. I don't know if his not leaving home is similar to the Moms's not leaving home. This is the most I've thought about the Moms in a
dog's age, to be honest with you. You have this way of getting stuff out of me. It's like you do nothing but sit there with that cigarette and you're
all I can see and all I want is to please you. It's like I can't help it. Is this just good journalism, Helen?'
    'Or is there something more going on here, some kind of strange bond I feel between us that sort of like tears down all my normal personal-life
boundaries and makes me open totally to you? I guess I have to hope you won't take advantage. Does this all sound like some kind of line? Maybe
if it was a line it'd sound less lame. I guess I do wish I could come off more suave. I don't know what else to do except just tell what's going on
inside me, even if it sounds lame. I never have any clue what you're thinking about it.'
    ' "Help! My son ate this!" She screamed the same thing over and over, holding the mold-rhombus up like a torch, running around just inside the
string border while I and Hallie staggered back, literally like staggered back, gaping at our first taste of apocalypse, a corner of the universe
suddenly peeled back to reveal what seethed out there just beyond tidiness. What lay just north of order.
    ' "Help! My son ate this! My son has eaten this! Help!" she kept screaming, running in tight little right-faces just inside this perfect box of string,
and I'm seeing The Mad Stork's face at the glass door over the deck, palms out and thumbs together to make a frame, and Mario my other brother
next to him as usual down around his knee, with Mario's face all squished against the glass from supporting his weight, their breath on the window
spreading, Hal inside the string finally and trying to follow her, crying, and not impossibly I also crying a little, just from the infectious stress, and
those two through the back door's glass just watching, and fucking Booboo also trying to make that frame with his hands, so finally it was Mr.
Reehagen next door, who was so-called "friends" with her, who had to come out and over and finally had to hook up the hose/
      a. This may be a lie -- no one else at E.T.A. knows anything else about there having been any cameras in HmH's kitchen, bathroom, etc.
      b. sic.

225
     She'd arrayed the photos herself, from her purse, on the dresser; he hadn't had to ask her to; it added to the sense of synchronous mercy, a
cosmic kindness balancing out the Jacuzzi's dead bird and the frigidly invasive reporter.
226
     E.T.A. shorthand: Vector/Angle/Pace/Spin.
227
     The NW-to-NE angle at the former Monteplier VT isn't quite 90°, but it is very close. By the way, the Syracuse-Ticonderoga-Salem triangle is one
of those endless-based 25-130-25 triangles that looks so hideous when projected onto one of Corbett Thorp's distorting globes in the Trivium's
Cubular Trigonometry.
228
     Quod vide here Ch. 7, 'It All Started with a Colorectal Neoplastis, an Openness to Communicative Manifestations of Divine Grace, and a Seedy-
Looking Fellow That Publicly Lifted a Chair He Was Standing On, That Was Clearly Just Such a Manifestation,' in The Chill of Inspiration:
Spontaneous Reminiscences by Seventeen Pioneers of DT-Cycle Lithiumized Annular Fusion, ed. Prof. Dr. Günther Sperber, Institut fur
Neutronenphysik und Reaktortechnik, Kernforschungszentrum Karlsruhe, U.R.G., available in English in ferociously expensive hardcover only, ©
Y.T.M.P. from Springer-Verlag Wien NNY. (N.b. that while the annular meta-disease treatment is highly effective on metastatic cancers, it proved a
disappointment on the HIV-spectrum viri, since AIDS is itself a meta-disease.)
229
     Because he'd been sworn to secrecy, Green doesn't tell Lenz that Charlotte Treat had shared with Green that her adoptive father had been one-
time Chair of the Northeast Regional Board of Dental Anesthesiologists, and had been pretty liberal with the use of the old N2O and thiopental
sodium around the Treats' Revere MA household, for personal and extremely unsavory reasons.
230
     ® The Mauna Loa Macadamia Nut Corp., Hilo HI -- 'A LOW SODIUM FOOD.'
231
     Popular corporate-hard-rock bands, though it shows where Bruce Green's psychic decline really started that, except for TBA5, these bands were
all truly big two or three years past, and are now slightly passe, with Choosy Mothers having split up entirely by now to explore individual creative
directions.
232
     This is one reason why he consents to be hung way out into space from Schtitt's transom for filming all-court play, held only by some prorector
with a firm grip on the back of his lock's vest, which the players looking up at Mario's forward ski-jump posture off the crow's nest find incredibly
terrifying and audacious and ballsy, and Avril won't even leave HmH during all-court filmings.
233
     This though Avril's never come right out and articulated her worry about his P.M. safety to Mario, not wanting to seem as though she's making a
special issue of his deficits and vulnerability or to seem inconsistent when she lets Hal go off nightly wherever he likes or just basically in any way
to inhibit Mario's sense of autonomy and freedom by causing him to worry about her worrying -- which he does, rather a lot, worry about Avril's
worrying about him. If that makes sense.
234
     Mario, like his maternal uncle Charles Tavis, has a dislike of fluorescent lighting.
    235
        'Is that supposed to mean something? What's that supposed to mean?'
'Nothing. Literally nothing.'
236
     A depressing new Sober Club in Somerville's Davis Square where AAs and NAs -- mostly new and young -- get heartbreakingly dolled up and
dance stiffly and tremble with sober sexual anxiety and they stand around with Cokes and M.F.s telling each other how great it is to be in an
intensely social venue with all your self-conscious inhibitions unmedicated and screaming in your head. The smiles alone in these places are
excruciating to see.
237
     A Restriction means just no Overnight that week and an extra Chore; a House Restriction means you have to be back an hour after work and
nightly meetings; Full House is no leaving the House except for work and meetings, and 15 minutes to get back, and no even leaving to buy
smokes or a paper, or even to go out in the lawn for oxygen, and one violation means a Discharge: F.H.R. is Ennet's version of the Hole, and it's
dreaded.
238
     Ennet House takes its urines over to the methadone clinic, which has all manner of clients who have to submit weekly urines to courts and
programs, and the clinic lets Ennet put its urines gratis in the weekly batch the clinic sends out to an E.M.I.T.-mill clinic all the way out in Natick,
and in return every once in a while Pat gets a call from the trollish little social worker who runs #2 about some client down there who's decided he
wants off the methadone, as well, and Pat will shoot the client way up on the Interview list and give him an interview and usually let the client in --
Calvin T. and Danielle S. had both originally gotten into Ennet House this way, i.e. via #2.
239
     It's maybe significant that Don Gately never once failed to clean up any vomit or incontinence his mother'd just drunkenly left there or passed
out in, no matter how pissed off or disgusted he was or how sick he himself was: not once.
240
     (who owns a Lincoln, Henderson does, origins unknown and suspicious)
241
     This is all for Insurance Reasons, the Staff sheet on which Gately doesn't understand all the language of, and fears.
242
     It's against House rules to smoke upstairs in the bedrooms -- more Insurance Reasons -- and a week's Restriction is supposed to be mandatory,
and Pat's personally a fanatic about the rule, but Gately, much as he fears the grim boilerplate on the Insurance Sheet, always pretends he doesn't
see anything when he sees somebody smoking up here, since when he was a resident he actually used to sometimes smoke in his sleep he was so
tense, and every once in a while will wake up and find that he has again, i.e. lit a gasper and apparently smoked it and put it out all in his sleep,
down in bed in his Staff oubliette in the basement.
243
     (the items from the House's donated-clothes baskets that fit Gately being few and far)
244
     Gately's made it an iron point never again ever to run, once he got straight.
245
     NNE street argot for any kind of handgun.
246
     (Erdedy's hands still up, w/ keys)
247
     (NNE Region, trying hard not to irritate Tine Sr. by fidgeting)
248
     (Desert-SW Region, understated in a massive peasant skirt and sensible flats)
249
     These, ® a number of fine companies, are like enormous versions of the little windshield-washer implements at service stations -- an industrial
mop-handle w/ a canted rubber blade at the end, used for spreading puddle-water out so it dries faster, at some academies replaced with the EZ-
DRI hinged-roller-of-dense-sponge-at-the-end court-dryer, which E.T.A. eschews because of how fast the rolling sponge at the end mildews and
smells bad.
250
     Mrs. Incandenza always grades everything in blue ink.
251
     A phenomenon not unknown, viz. menial employees and shift-workers mining E.T.A.'s collected waste for cast-off value, and permitted by the
administration and Mr. Harde, or rather just not actively discouraged, since 'One man's trash . ..' and so on, with the only requirement being a
certain visual discretion when carrying off E.T.A.'s offal, simply because the whole thing's kind of embarrassing for everybody.
252
     I.e. the Women's Tennis Association, the distaff equivalent of the A.T.P.
253
     Sic, presumably for Betamax (®Sony).
254
     Sic, but it's pretty obvious what Marathe means here.
255
     Reinforced Aluminum Spectation Unit.
256
     The occasional upscale parent could be seen exiting Comm.-Ad. and crossing behind the West Courts' south fence to the asphalt lot and what
were unmistakably parental autos, all remarkable for their textbook tire-pressure and bristles of cellular antennae and the absence of any little
dust-smiles on their rear or side windows. Charles Tavis had spent the morning interfacing with parents of those E.T.A. kids injured in I.-Day's Es-
chaton free-for-all. Lateral Alice Moore, for a treat, had been listening to Tavis and parents on her headphones, while typing, instead of her
collection of aerobic favorites. Struck and Pemulis had cruised by before lunch and blarneyed her into putting the exchanges on her intercom's
speaker for a couple minutes. You should hear C.T. enclosed with parents sometime. It was only some of the parents -- Todd Possalthwaite's dad
was on honeymoon in the Azores, and Otis P. Lord's mother had some inner-ear thing and the Lords couldn't fly. But Pemulis and Struck concurred
that everyone with any kind of administration in his blood should hear E.T.A.'s Headmaster with parents and a placative mission, a master charmer
past all social gauge, a Houdini with the manacles of fact, the interfaces like fluidless seductions -- Pemulis said the man's missed a genuine calling
in sales -- everyone practically wanting to smoke a cigarette afterward, the parents leave weeping, pumping Tavis's hands -- one parent per hand
-- practically begging him to accept both their thanks and their apologies for daring to even possibly think, even for a moment. Then, supporting
each other, making their way over Lateral Alice's third rail and past the beaming extremely polite lads by her desk and out through the pressurized
glass lobby doors and down off the white-pillared neo-Georgian porch and past courts and bleachers and into their well-maintained autos and out
the portcullis and very slowly down the hill's brick drive before they even recall they'd forgotten to pop in on their injured kid, sign his cast, feel his
forehead, say Hey.
257
    I.e. ace/double fault, rather like the ratio of strikeouts to walks for a pitcher.
258
    It was like Steeply'd never seen so many left-handed people: both Hal Incandenza and the boy in black were left-handed, one of the two little
girls four courts down was left-handed, deLint was marking the chart with his left hand. Both A.F.R. turncoat Rémy Marathe and Québecer triple-
operative Luria P--      - were southpaws, though Steeply realized that this could hardly be called significant.
  259

   Saprogenic Greetings*
   WHEN YOU CARE ENOUGH TO LET A PROFESSIONAL SAY IT FOR YOU
   *a proud member of the ACME Family of Gags 'N Notions, Pre-Packaged Emotions, Jokes and Surprises and Wacky Disguises
   Ms. Helen Steepley And So On November Y.D.A.U.
   ... (1) Orin Incandenza and I played, practiced, and generally hung out through most of what seemed at the time to be our formative years. We
met because I kept encountering him across the net in the local tennis tournaments we played around metro Boston, Boys' 10's. We were the two
best 10-year-old males in Boston. We soon became practice partners, our mothers driving us every weekday afternoon to a junior development
program at the Auburndale Tennis Club in West Newton. After my own parents were horribly killed on the Jamaica Way commuter road one
morning in the freak crash of a radio traffic-report helicopter, I became a sort of hanger-on at the Incandenza house out in Weston. When J.O.I,
founded the Academy, I was one of the first matriculants. Orin and I were inseparable until around age 15, when I reached my own zenith in terms
of early puberty and athletic promise and began to be able to beat him. He took it hard. We were never inseparable again. We spent quantity time
together again briefly for a few months the next year, during a period when we both experimented heavily with recreational substances. We both
ended up losing enthusiasm for substances after only a couple years, Orin because he had finally entered puberty and had discovered the weaker
sex and found he needed all his faculties and guile, myself because a couple of really negative methoxy-psychedelic experiences left me with
certain Disabilities that to this day make normal life an exceptional challenge, and which I tend to blame on having done deadly-serious
hallucinogens at a sort of larval psychological stage during which no N. American adolescent should be allowed to do hallucinogens. These
Disabilities led to my departure from the Enfield Tennis Academy at 17, prior to graduation, and my withdrawal from competitive junior tennis and
contemporary life as we know it. Orin was largely burned out on tennis too by 17, though no one in his right mind could have foreseen a defection
to organized U.S. football in his future.
   A grunting, crunching ballet of repressed homoeroticism, football, Ms. Steepley, on my view. The exaggerated breadth of the shoulders, the
masked eradication of facial personality, the emphasis on contact-vs.-avoidance-of-contact. The gains in terms of penetration and resistance. The
tight pants that accentuate the gluteals and hamstrings and what look for all the world like codpieces. The gradual slow shift of venue to "artificial
surface," "artificial turf." Don't the pants' fronts look fitted with codpieces? And have a look at these men whacking each other's asses after a play.
It is like Swinburne sat down on his soul's darkest night and designed an organized sport. And pay no attention to Orin's defense of football as a
ritualized substitute for armed conflict. Armed conflict is plenty ritualized on its own, and since we have real armed conflict (take a spin through
Boston's Roxbury and Mattapan districts some evening) there is no need or purpose for a substitute. Football is pure homophobically repressed
nancy-ism, and do not let O. tell you different.
   . .. (3c) I cannot help you too much with the facts surrounding Dr. Incandenza's suicide. I know that he erased his own cartography in a grisly
way. I was told that in the year leading up to his death Dr. Incandenza was abusing ethyl alcohol on a daily basis and was working on a whole new
genre of film-cartridge that Orin at the time claimed was driving Dr. Inc insane.
   . . . (3e) The supposed cause of their separation is that Dr. Incandenza began using her in his work more and more extensively and eventually
asked her to perform in the prenominate completely radical new type of filmed entertainment that supposedly was driving him to a breakdown.
They supposedly became close, James and Jo-Ellen, though Orin in my judgment is not a reliable source of information about their relationship.
   The only other apposite fact I have -- and I have this not from Orin but from an innocent female relative of mine who was (briefly) in a position
to interface with our punter in an intimate and unguarded way impossible between hetero males -- is that some incident occurred in the
Incandenzas' Volvo involving one of the windows and a word -- all I am given is that O. reports that in the days prior to Dr. Incandenza's felo de
se, a so-called "word" appeared on a "fogged" "window" of Mrs. Inc's pale yellow Volvo, and the word cast a conjugal pall in all sorts of directions.
This is it.
   ... (5) The "vailed warning" (typo?) you refer to in my postal response to you is simply that you have to take what Orin says in a fairly high-
sodium way. I am not sure I would stand and point at Orin as an example of a classic pathological liar, but you have only to watch him in certain
kinds of action to see that there can be such a thing as sincerity with a motive. I have no idea what your relationship with Orin is or what your
feelings are -- and if Orin wishes it I am afraid I can predict your feelings for him will be strong -- so I shall just tell you that for instance at E.T.A.
I saw Orin in bars or at post-tournament dances go up to a young lady he would like to pick up and use this fail-safe cross-sectional pick-up
Strategy that involved an opening like "Tell me what sort of man you prefer, and then I'll affect the demeanor of that man." Which in a way of
course is being almost pathologically open and sincere about the whole picking-up enterprise, but also has this quality of Look-At-Me-Being-So-
Totally-Open-And-Sincere-I-Rise-Above-The-Whole-Disingenuous-Posing-Process-Of-Attracting-Someone-,-And -I-Transcend-The-Common-
Disingenuity-In-A-Bar-Herd-In-A-Particularly-Hip-And-Witty-Self-Aware-Way-,-And-If-You-Will-Let-Me-Pick-You-Up-I-Will-Not-Only-Keep - Being -
This - Wittily, - Transcendently - Open -, - But - Will - Bring-You - Into - This -World-Of-Social-Falsehood-Transcendence, which of course he
cannot do because the whole openness-demeanor thing is itself a purposive social falsehood; it is a pose of poselessness; Orin Incandenza is the
least open man I know. Spend a little time with Orin's Uncle Charles a.k.a. "Gretel the Cross-Sectioned Dairy Cow" Tavis if you want to see real
openness in motion, and you will see that genuine pathological openness is about as seductive as Tourette's syndrome.
   It is not that Orin Incandenza is a liar, but that I think he has come to regard the truth as constructed instead of reported. He came by this idea
educationally, is all I will add. He studied for almost eighteen years at the feet of the most consummate mind-fucker I have ever met, and even
now he remains so flummoxed he thinks the way to escape that person's influence is through renunciation and hatred of that person. Defining
yourself in opposition to something is still being anaclitic on that thing, isn't it? I certainly think so. And men who believe they hate what they really
fear they need are of limited interest, I find.
   . .. Again I will remind you that Orin and I are on the outs a bit at the moment, so some of my judgments may be temporarily short on charity.
   One reason Orin is not a straight-out liar is that Orin is not a particularly skillful liar. The few times I saw him try consciously to lie were pathetic.
This is one reason why his juvenile recreational-chemical phase passed so quickly compared to some of our colleagues at E.T.A. If you are going to
do serious drugs while you are still a minor and under your parents' roof, you are going to have to -lie often and lie well. Orin was a strangely
stupid liar. I am recalling there was one afternoon on Mrs. Clarke's day off when Mrs. Inc had to go off and overfunction somewhere and Orin was
supposed to baby-sit Mario and Hal, who were at the kind of crazed-toddler age where they would hurt themselves if they were not closely
supervised, and I was over, and Orin and I decided to dart up to the loft over the Weston house's garage to smoke a bit of Bob Hope, which is to
say high-resin marijuana, and in the loft, high, wandered disastrously into the sort of pseudophilosophical mental labyrinth that Bob Hope-smokers
are always wandering into and getting trapped in and wasting huge amounts of time3 inside
   a. This tendency to involuted abstraction is sometimes called "Marijuana Thinking"; and by the way, the so-called "Amotivational Syndrome"
consequent to massive Bob Hope-consumption is a misnomer, for it is not that Bob Hope-smokers lose interest in practical functioning, but rather
Marijuana-Think themselves into labyrinths of reflexive abstraction that seem to cast doubt on the very possibility of practical functioning, and the
mental labor of finding one's way out consumes all available attention and makes the Bob Hope-smoker look physically torpid and apathetic and
amoti-vated sitting there, when really he is trying to claw his way out of a labyrinth. Note that the overwhelming hunger (the so-called "munchies")
that accompanies cannabis intoxication may be a natural defense mechanism against this kind of loss of practical function, since there is no more
practical function anywhere than foraging for food.
   an intellectual room they cannot negotiate their way out of, and by the time we hadn't resolved the abstract problem that had put us into the
labyrinth but just as always had gotten so hungry we abandoned it and stumbled out and down the loft's wooden ladder, the sun was all the way
on the other side of the sky over Wayland and Sudbury, and the whole afternoon had passed without Hal and Mario having received any protective
supervision; and Hal and Mario somehow survived the afternoon, but when Mrs. Incan-denza returned that night she asked Orin what we and the
supervised toddlers had done all afternoon and Orin lied that we had all been right here, respectively playing and supervising, and Mrs. Incandenza
expressed puzzlement to Orin because she said she had tried to call the house several times that afternoon but was unable to get through, and
Orin replied that while supervising he had herded the toddlers carefully into rooms with phone-jacks and made calls and had been on the phone
several times for Jong periods of time for this that or the other thing, was why she had been unable to get through, at which Mrs. Incandenza (who
is extremely tall) had blinked several times and looked very confused and said that but the phone had not been busy, it had just rung and rung and
rung. At a juncture like this, men and boys get separated in terms of prevarication, I submit. And all Orin could come up with was a steady gaze as
he said, as if from the Rose Garden: "I have no response to that." Which incredibly stupid response he and I found very funny for weeks afterward,
especially since Mrs. Incandenza never punished and refused to act as if she believed lying was even a possibility as far as her children were
concerned, and treated an exploded lie as an insoluble cosmic mystery instead of an exploded lie.
   The worst instance of both Orin's mendacious idiocy and Mrs. Incandenza's unwillingness to countenance an idiotic lie came one grisly day soon
after Orin had finally gotten his vehicle operator's license. O. and I found ourselves with an idle weekday afternoon off in August after losing early
at a synthetic-grass tournament down at Long-wood, and Hal was still alive in what was then Boys' 10's and thus a good bit of the E.T.A. summer
community was still down at Longwood, including Mario and Mrs. Incandenza, who'd been driven down I remember by a sort of swarthily foreign-
looking moniíial-internist medical resident Mrs. Inc had introduced as a so-called "dear and cherished friend" but hadn't explained how they'd met,
and Dr. Incandenza was indisposed and not in a position to bother anyone that day, I remember, and Orin and I had most of E.T.A. to ourselves,
even the gate's portcullis unmanned and up, and this being at the acme of our interest in such things we wasted little time in ingesting some sort
of recreational substance, I cannot recall what kind but I remember them as particularly impairing, and we decided however that we weren't yet
impaired enough, and decided to drive down the hill to one of the disreputable liquor stores along Commonwealth Avenue that accepted your word
of honor as proof of age, and we hopped into the Volvo and blasted down the hill and down Commonwealth Avenue, severely impaired, and
wondered in a speculative way why people on the sidewalks all along Commonwealth seemed to be waving at us and holding their heads and
pointing and jumping wildly up and down, and Orin waving cheerfully back and holding his own head in a sort of friendly imitation, but it was not
until we got all the way down to the Commonwealth-Brighton Ave. split that the horrible realization hit us: Mrs. Incandenza often during summer
days kept the Incandenzas' beloved dog S. Johnson leashed to the back of her Volvo within reach of his water and Science Diet bowls, and Orin
and I had peeled out in the car without even thinking to check for whether S. Johnson was attached to it. I will not try to describe what we found
when we pulled into a parking lot and slunk to the rear of the car. Let's call it a nubbin. Let's say what we found was a leash and collar, and a
nubbin. According to the couple of witnesses who were able to speak, S. Johnson had made a valiant go of trying to keep up back there for at least
a couple blocks down Commonwealth, but at some point he either lost his footing or got his canine affairs in order and figured it was his day to
shuffle off, and gave up, and hit the pavement, after which the scene the witnesses described was unspeakable. There was fur and let's call it
material down the middle of the inside east-bound lane for five or six blocks. What we had left to take slowly back up the Academy's hill was a
leash, a collar with tags describing medication-allergies and food-sensitivities, and a nubbin of let's call it attached material.
   The point is that I defy you to imagine how it felt later that day to stand there with Orin in the HmH living room before the prone and piteously
weeping Mrs. Incandenza and listen to Orin try to construct a version of events in which he and I had sensed somehow that S. Johnson was dying
for a good brisk August walk and were walking him down Commonwealth,15 saying there we were walking good old S. Johnson demurely down the
sidewalk when a hit-and-run driver not only swerved up onto the sidewalk to run the dog down but then backed up and ran him over again and
backed up and ran him over again, and on and on, so more like a pulverize-and-run driver, while Orin and I had stood there too paralyzed with
horror and grief even to think of noticing the make and color of the car, much less the fiend's license plate. Mrs. Incan-denza on her knees (there's
something surreal about a very tall woman on her knees), weeping and pressing her hand to her collarbone but nodding in confirmation at every
syllable of Orin spinning this pathetic lie, O. holding up the leash and collar (and nubbin) like Exhibit A, with me next to him wiping my forehead
and wishing the immaculately polished and sterilized hardwood floor would swallow up the whole scene in toto.
   ... (7) Ms. Steeples, to my way of thinking, the word "abuse" is vacuous. Who can define "abuse"? The difficulty with really interesting cases of
abuse is that the ambiguity of the abuse becomes part of the abuse. Thanks over the decades to the energetic exercise of your own profession, Ms.
Steeley, we have all heard ACOAs and AlaTeens and ACONAs and ACOGs and WHINERS relate clear cases of different kinds of abuse: beatings,
diddlings, rapes, deprivations, domineerment, humiliation, captivity, torture, excessive criticism or even just utter disinterest. But at least the
victims of this sort of abuse can, when they have dredged it back up after childhood, confidently call it "abuse." There are, however, more
ambiguous cases. Harder to profile, one might say. What would you call a parent who is so neurasthenic and depressive that any opposition to his
parental will plunges him into the sort of psychotic depression where he does not leave his bed for days and just sits there in bed cleaning his
revolver, so that the child would be terrified of opposing his will and plunging him into a depression and maybe causing him to suicide? Would that
child qualify as "abused"? Or a father who is so engrossed by mathematics that he gets engrossed helping his child with his algebra homework and
ends up forgetting the child and doing it all himself so that the child gets an A in Fractions but never in fact learns fractions? Or even say a father
who is extremely handy around the house and can fix anything, and has the son help him, but gets so engrossed in his projects (the father) that he
never thinks to explain to the son how the projects actually get done, so that the son's "help" never advances past simply handing the father a
specified wrench or getting him lemonade or Phillips-head screws until the day the father is crushed into aspic in a freak accident on the Jamaica
Way and all opportunities for transgenerational instruction are forever lost, and the son never learns how to be a handy homeowner himself, and
when things malfunction around his own one-room home he has to hire contemptuous filthy-nailed men to come fix them, and feels terribly
inadequate (the son), not only because he is not handy but because this handiness seemed to him to have represented to his father everything
that was independent and manly and non-Disabled in an American male. Would you cry "Abuse!" if you were the unhandy son, looking back?
Worse, could you call it abuse without feeling that you were a pathetic self-indulgent piss-puddle, what with all the genuine cases of hair-raising
physical and emotional abuse diligently reported and analyzed daily by conscientious journalists (and profiled?)?
   I am not sure whether you could call this abuse, but when I was (long ago) abroad in the world of dry men, I saw parents, usually upscale and
educated and talented and functional and white, patient and loving and supportive and concerned and involved in their children's lives, profligate
with compliments and diplomatic with constructive criticism, loquacious in their pronouncements of unconditional love for and approval of their
children, conforming to every last jot/tittle in any conceivable definition of a good parent, I saw parent after unimpeachable parent who raised kids
who were (a) emotionally retarded or (b) lethally self-indulgent or (c) chronically depressed or (d) bor- derline psychotic or (e) consumed with
narcissistic self-loathing or (f) neurotically driven/addicted or (g) variously psychosomatically Disabled or (h) some conjunctive permutation of (a) ...
(g) Now, Orin had never once walked S. Johnson. Orin was not even all that keen on S. Johnson, because the dog was always trying to mate with
his left leg. And anyway, S. Johnson was very much Mrs. Incandenza's dog, and was normally exercised only by Mrs. Incandenza, and at rigidly
specific times of day.
    .
    Why is this. Why do many parents who seem relentlessly bent on producing children who feel they are good persons deserving of love produce
children who grow to feel they are hideous persons not deserving of love who just happen to have lucked into having parents so marvelous that
the parents love them even though they are hideous?
    Is it a sign of abuse if a mother produces a child who believes not that he is innately beautiful and lovable and deserving of magnificent maternal
treatment but somehow that he is a hideous unlovable child who has somehow lucked in to having a really magnificent mother? Probably not.
    But could such a mother then really be all that magnificent, if that's the child's view of himself?
    I am not speaking about my own mother, who was decapitated by a plummeting rotorblade long before she could have much effect one way or
the other on my older brother and innocent younger sister and me.
    I think, Mrs. Starkly, that I am speaking of Mrs. Avril M.-T. Incandenza, although the woman is so multileveled and indictment-proof that it is
difficult to feel comfortable with any sort of univocal accusation of anything. Something just was not right, is the only way to put it. Something
creepy, even on the culturally stellar surface. For instance, after Orin had pretty clearly killed her beloved dog S. Johnson in a truly awful if acci-
dental way, and then had tried to evade responsibility for it with a lie that a parent far less intelligent than Avril could have seen right through, Mrs.
Inc's response was not only not conventionally abusive, but seemed almost too unconditionally loving and compassionate and selfless to possibly be
true. Her response to Orin's pathetic pulverize-and-run-driver lie was not to act credulous so much as to act as if the entire grotesque fiction had
never reached her ears. And her response to the dog's death itself was bizarrely furcated. On the one hand, she mourned S. Johnson's death very
deeply, took the leash and collar and canine nubbin tenderly and arranged lavish memorial and funeral arrangements, including a heartbreakingly
small cherrywood coffin, cried in audible private for weeks, etc. But the other half of her emotional energies went into being overly solicitous and
polite toward Orin, upping the daily compliment-and-reinforcement-dose, arranging for favorite foods at E.T.A. meals, having his favorite little
tennis appurtenances appear magically in his bed and locker with loving notes attached, basically making the thousands of little gestures by which
the technically stellar parent can make her child feel particularly valued0 -- all out of concern that Orin in no way think she resented him for S.
Johnson's death or blamed him or loved him less in any way because of the whole incident. Not only was there no punishment or even visible
pique, but the love-and-support-bombardment increased. And all this was coupled with elaborate machinations to keep the mourning and funeral
arrangements and moments of wistful dog-remembrance hidden from Orin, for fear that he might see that the Moms was hurt and so feel bad or
guilty, so that in his presence Mrs. Inc became even more cheerful and loquacious and witty and intimate and benign, even suggesting in oblique
ways that life was now somehow suddenly better without the dog, that some kind of unrecognized albatross had been somehow removed from her
neck, and so on and so forth.
    What does a trained analyst of our cultural profile's soft contours like yourself make of this, Mrs. Starksaddle? Is it mind-bogglingly considerate
and loving and supportive, or is there something . . . creepy about it? Maybe a more perspicuous question: Was the almost pathological generosity
with which Mrs. Inc responded to her son taking her car in an intoxicated condition and dragging her beloved dog to its grotesque death and then
trying to lie his way out of it, was this generosity for Orin's sake, or for Avril's own? Was it Orin's "self-esteem" she was safeguarding, or her own
vision of herself as a more stellar Moms than any human son could ever hope to feel he merits?
    When Orin does his impression of Avril -- which I doubt you or anyone else can get him to do anymore, though it was a party-stopper back in
our days at the Academy -- what he will do is assume an enormous warm and loving smile and move steadily toward you until he is in so close that
his face is spread up flat against your own face and c. Yes -- all right -- this may start to touch on it: not "valuable" but "valued."your breaths
mingle. If you can get to experience it -- the impression -- which will seem worse to you: the smothering proximity, or the unimpeachable warmth
and love with which it's effected?
    For some reason now I am thinking of the sort of philanthropist who seems humanly repellent not in spite of his charity but because of it: on
some level you can tell that he views the recipients of his charity not as persons so much as pieces of exercise equipment on which he can develop
and demonstrate his own virtue. What's creepy and repellent is that this sort of philanthropist clearly needs privation and suffering to continue,
since it is his own virtue he prizes, instead of the ends to which the virtue is ostensibly directed.
    Everything Orin's mother is about is always terribly well-ordered and multivalent. I suspect she was badly abused as a child. I have nothing
concrete to back this up.
But if, Ms. Bainbridge, you have yielded your own charms to Orin, and if Orin strikes you as a wonderfully gifted and giving lover -- which by
various accounts he is -- not just skilled and sensuous but magnificently generous, empathic, attentive, loving -- if it seems to you that he does,
truly, derive his own best pleasure from giving you pleasure, you might wish to reflect soberly on this vision of Orin imitating his dear Moms as
philanthropist: a person closing in, arms open wide, smiling.
260
     ® The Glad Flaccid Receptacle Corporation, Zanesville OH.
261
     (including K. McKenna, who claims to have a bruised skull but does not in fact have a bruised skull)
262
     This is why Ann Kittenplan, way more culpable for Eschaton-damage than any of the other kids, isn't down here on the punitive cleanup crew, is
that it's become a defacto Tunnel Club operation. LaMont Chu was nominated to tell her she could blow it off and they'd mark her down as present,
which was just fine with Ann Kittenplan, since even the butchest little girls don't seem to have this proto-masculine fetish for enclosure underneath
things.
263
      = Stars, shooting stars, falling stars.
264
   Poutrincourt uses the Nuck idiom réflechis instead of the more textbook reflexes, and does indeed sound like the real Canadian McCoy, though
her accent is without the long moany suffixes of Marathe, and but anyway it is for certain that a certain 'journalist' will be e-mailing Falls Church VA
on the U.S.O.'s Clipper-proof line for the unexpurgated files on one 'Poutrincourt, Thierry T.'
265
     Using s'annuler instead of the more Québecois se détruire.
266
     Using the vulgate Québecois transperçant, whose idiomatic connotation of doom Poutrincourt shouldn't have had any reason to think the
Parisian-speaking Steeply would know, which is the slip that indicates that Poutrincourt's figured out that Steeply is neither a civilian soft-profiler
nor even a female, which Poutrincourt's probably known ever since Steeply'd lit his Flanderfume with the elbow of his lighter-arm out instead of in,
which only males and radically butch lesbians ever do, and which together with the electrolysis-rash comprises the only real chink in the operative's
distaff persona, and would require an almost professionally hypervigilant and suspicious person to notice the significance of.
267
     Trois-Rivières-region idiom, meaning basically 'reason to get out of bed in the morning.'
268
     Where was Mrs. Pemulis all this time, late at night, with dear old Da P. shaking Matty 'awake' until his teeth rattled and little Micky curled up
against the far wall, shell-breathing, silent as death, is what I'd want to know.
269
     The kid's the former E.T.A. whose name keeps eluding and torturing Hal, who hasn't gone over twenty-four hours without getting high in secret
for well over a year, and doesn't feel very good at all, and finds the kid's name's elusiveness infuriating.
270
     Anhedonia was apparently coined by Ribot, a Continental Frenchman, who in his 19th-century Psychologic des Sentiments says he means it to
denote the psychoequivalent of analgesia, which is the neurologic suppression of pain.
271
     This had been one of Hal's deepest and most pregnant abstractions, one he'd come up with once while getting secretly high in the Pump Room.
That we're all lonely for something we don't know we're lonely for. How else to explain the curious feeling that he goes around feeling like he
misses somebody he's never even met? Without the universalizing abstraction, the feeling would make no sense.
272
     (the big reason why people in pain are so self-absorbed and unpleasant to be around)
273
     S.S.R.I.s, of which Zoloft and the ill-fated Prozac were the ancestors.
274
     A crude and cheap form of combustible methedrine, favored by the same sort of addictive class that sniffs gasoline fumes or coats the inside of
a paper bag with airplane glue and puts the bag over their face and breathes until they fall down and start to convulse.
275
     This has got to be a mispronunciation or catachresis on R.v.C.'s part, since Clonidine -- 2-(2,6-Dichloroanilino)-2-imidazoline -- is a decidedly
adult-strength anti-hypertensive; the infant'd have to be N.F.L.-sized to tolerate it.
276
     Kate G.'s never done Ice, or crack/'base/crank, nor even cocaine or low-impact 'drines. Drug addicts tend to fall into different classes: those who
like downs and Mr. Hope rarely enjoy stimulants, while coke- and 'drine-fiends as a rule abhor marijuana. This is an area of potentially fruitful study
in addictionology. Note that pretty much every class of addicts drinks, though.
277
     Since last winter, when a stale smell, litter of dental stimulators, and single slender spit-wet butt signified that a certain upperclassman had been
smoking panatelas late at night in V.R.3.
278
     The Continent's Best Yogurt®.
279
     In point of a fact wholly unknown to Hal, BS:OTN was in fact a very sad self-hate-festival on Himself's part, a veiled allegory of sponsorship and
Himself's own miserable distaste for the vacant grins and reductive platitudes of the Boston AA that M.D.s and counselors kept referring him to.
280
     Whether the girl's hideous facial burn-scars are the result of a freebase accident is never made explicit in the film. Bernadette Longley says she
kind of hopes that's the case, because otherwise the scars would function as symbols of some deeper and more spiritual wound/hideousness, and
the symbolic equation of facial with moral deformity strikes everybody over thirteen in the room as terribly gooey and heavy and stock.
281
     After a heyday during the pre-millennial self-help craze, CA's receded back to being a splinter of the still-enormous Narcotics Anonymous; and
Pat Montesian and the Ennet House Staff, while they have nothing against a resident with cocaine-issues hitting the occasional CA venue, strongly
suggest that residents stick with AA or NA and not make splinters like CA or Designer Drug Addicts Anonymous or Prescription Tranquilizers
Anonymous their primary fellowship for recovery, mostly because the splinters tend to have way fewer Groups and meetings -- and some none at
all in certain parts of the U.S. -- and because their extremely specific Substance-focus tends to narrow the aperture of recovery and focus too
much on abstinence from just one Substance instead of complete sobriety and a new spiritual way of life in toto.
    282
        Fearful partly because the Ennet House Staff strongly discourages residents forming any kind of sentimental attachment to members of the
opposite sex during their nine-month stay,3 to say nothing of attachments to Staffers.
a. This is a corollary of Boston AA's suggestion that single newcomers not get romantically involved for the first year of sobriety. The big reason for
this, Boston AAs with time will explain if pinned down, is that the sudden removal of Substances leaves an enormous ragged hole in the psyche of
the newcomer, the pain of which the newcomer's supposed to feel and be driven kneeward by and pray to have filled by Boston AA and the old
Higher Power, and intense romantic involvements offer a delusive analgesic for the pain of the hole, and tend to make the involvees clamp onto
one another like covalence-hungry isotopes, and substitute each other for meetings and Activity in a Group and Surrender, and then if the
involvement doesn't pan out (which like how many between newcomers do you suppose do) both involvees are devastated and in even more hole-
pain than before and now don't have the intensive-work-in-AA-dependent strength to make it through the devastation without going back to the
Substance. Relevant gnomes here might include 'Addicts Don't Have Relationships, They Take Hostages' (sic) and 'An Alcoholic Is a Relief-Seeking
Missile.' And so on. The no-involvement thing tends to be the Waterloo of all suggestions, for newcomers, and celibacy's often the issue that
separates those who Hang from those who Go Back Out There.
283
     Apparently the current colored word for other coloreds. Joelle van Dyne, by the way, was aculturated in a part of the U.S.A. where verbal
attitudes toward black people are dated and unconsciously derisive, and is doing pretty much the best she can -- colored and so on -- and anyway
is a paragon of racial sensitivity compared to the sort of culture Don Gately was conditioned in.
284
     It's a Boston-colored thing on Commitments to make all speech a protracted apostrophe to some absent 'Jim,' Joelle's observed in a neutral
sociologic way.
285
     Boston Housing Authority.
286
     Mixes 5/1 with ferric chloride to produce 'A + B Blood,' an F/X staple of low-budget splatter-films.
287
     The cartridge's repetitive emphasis on the Mother Superior's desire to silence the novitiate leads B. Boone -- a lazy student but very bright girl
-- to opine that the silent brown-cowled Trappists who've been hanging superfluously around the film's edges like some mute Greek chorus have
been serving a symbolic rather than a narrative function, which strikes Hal as perceptive.
288
     It's also a sly Schtitt-directed à-clef, of course, amounting to something like We Are What We Revile or We Are What We Scurry Around As Fast
As Possible With Our Eyes Averted, though when Schtitt mentions the motto he never attaches any moral connotation to it, or for that matter ever
translates it, allowing prorectors and Big Buddies to adjust their translations to suit the needs of the pedagogical moment.
289
     © the Commonwealth of MA's Lottery Authority.
290
     Easily found when pawning a cordless M. Cafe® Café-au-Lait Maker at a Brookline shop of pawning, for Fortier and Marathe and the A.F.R.
knew well M. DuPlessis's passion of breakfast cafe au lait.
    291
        Having in her M.B.A. program absorbed the litigatory lessons of music producers v. cassette-tape manufacturers and film-production
companies v. videotape-rental chains, Noreen Lace-Forché protected InterLace's golden goose's copyrights by specifying that all consumer-TP-
compatible laser cartridges be engineered as Read-Only -- copyable Master cartridges require special OS-codes and special hardware to run,a and
you need licenses for both the codes and the hardware, which keeps most consumers out of the bootleg-cartridge business but is not a hard hurdle
to clear if you've got financial resources and political incentive (i.e., to dupe off a Master).
a. N.L.-F. had even rigged it so that Masters have to be run at 585 r.p.m. instead of a consumer-TP's cartridge-drive's 450 r.p.m.
    292
        Thanks to the betrayal of Marathe, this pure-malice agenda is known to the Office of Unspecified Services, though it is not impossible that
Fortier deliberately allowed Marathe to pass along this datum, Marathe knows, for the hope of instilling even deeper chills of fear in Sans-Chrìste
Gentle and his O.N.A.N. chiens-courants. Suspected but unknown by Marathe, Fortier plans to have Marathe view the Entertainment by force
before plans for the dissemination of copies from a Master are firm in execution. This not because Fortier for a moment suspects Marathe's love of
his wife's health of prompting his betrayal of Leur Rai Pays -- Fortier had overseen both jeux du procbain train* at which Marathe's elder brothers
had been struck and killed, and Fortier has long nursed a suspicion that Marathe nurses dreams of redress for this.
a. Q.v. Note 304 sub.
293
     Though hope springs eternal in the breasts, this news had been expected by Broullîme and Fortier the moment they witnessed the shop's
brothers active and alert. For they believed no Master cartridge would have lain unshelved in a bag or damp box: even the dim brothers Antitoi,
seeing the unique case and slightly larger size of a Master, would have put this to the special side, and arranged for the special 585-r.p.m.
hardware to view it to check for special value, and been already lost.
    294
        Q.v. @ 2O3Oh. on 11 November Year of the D.A.U., 308 Subdorm B, Enfield Tennis Academy, where James Albrecht Lockley Struck Jr. sits
slumped, chin in hands, forehead slathered in (C2H5CO)2O2a, elbows on tiny cleared spots on desktop, TP compactly humming, word-processing
converter plugged into its green-lit dock, HD screen set atop the cartridge-viewer chassis on its fold-out support like a loved one's photo, keyboard
hauled out of McGee-like chaos of closet and set on Heavy Touch, cursor throbbing softly at screen's upper left before Struck, hunched blearily over
what's starting to emerge as like unabsorbable amounts of research material for his post-Midterm termpaper for Ms. Pout-rincourt's History of
Canadian Unpleasantness course thing. Struck always refers mentally to his classes as 'things.' Original hopes for at least originality of topic have
long since gone over the side of the boat, emotionally. It turns out the more luridly absorbing the angle of topic you choose, the more people have
already been there before you with their footprints to fill and their obscurely academic-type-journal articles to try and absorb and, like, synthesize.
Struck's been at this over an hour, and his original sights have lowered considerably. He's been feeling a bit punk all day, sinuses with that infallible
storm's-on-the-way feeling of weight and clot and a goalie-mask headache that throbs with his heart, and he's now trying to find some new
resource in the piles that's obscure and amateurish enough for him to transpose and semi-plagiarize without worrying about Poutrincourt having
read it or smelling a rat in the woodpile.
    'Almost as little of irreproachable scholarly definitiveness is known about the infamous Separatist "Wheelchair Assassins" (Les Assassins des
Fauteuils Rollents or A.F.R.s) of southwestern Quebec as is accepted as axiomatic about the herds of oversized "Feral Infants" allegedly reputed to
inhabit the periodically overinhabitable forested sections of the eastern Reconfiguration.'
   A B.P.L. ArchFax database search off the conjunctive key terms A.F.R., wheelchair, fauteuil rollent, Quebec, Quebec, Separatism, terrorist,
Experialism, history, and cult, which you'd think would narrow things down nicely, yielded over 400 items, articles, essays, and papers, in
everything from The Continent to Us, from Foreign Affairs to something called Wild Conceits, a woebegone little marginal archaic desktop-pub.-
looking thing put out by someplace called Bayside Community College up 1-93 in Med-ford, nowhere near any bays, and edited by the same-named
guy whose Wild Conceits wheelchair-killers essay Struck, after having to read the first sentence a bunch of times to even make sense of it, gauges
he's pretty safe in ripping off, since no way Poutrincourt'd have spent the time to E.S.L. her way through U.S. Academese this insufferable:
   '... that the prenominate oversized infants reputedly do exist, are anomalous and huge, grow but do not develop, feed on the abundance of
annularly available edibles the overgrowth periods in the region represent, do deposit titanically outsized scat, and presumably do crawl
thunderously about, occasionally sallying south of murated retention lines and into populated areas of New New England.' In a twist on the usual
plagiarism-situation, the hardest work for Struck here is going to be sanitizing the prose in this Wild Conceits guy's thing, or at least bringing the
verbs and modifiers down out of the like total ozone, which the Academese here on the wrhole sounds to Struck like the kind of foam-flecked
megalograndiosity he associates with Quaaludes and red wine and then the odd Preludin to pull out of the grandiose nosedive of the Quaaludes
and red wine. Plus let's not even mention repair-work on the freewheeling transitions; Poutrincourt has a fetishy thing about transitions.
   'The massive, feral infants, formed by toxicity and sustained by annulation, however, are, from the vulgate perspective of this Year of the
Whisper-Quiet Maytag Dishmaster, essentially passive icons of the Experialist gestalt. Would that the infamous Assassins des Fauteuils Rollents
were, as well.' Struck can almost see Poutrincourt putting a big red triple-underlined QUOI? under a transition this tortured and freewheeling.
Struck pictures the Wild Conceits guy totally strafed as he goes, weaving over his foam-flecked desktop, almost. Tor the infamous Quebecker
Separatist A.F.R. cell's claims to irreduce-ably active status include the following. The legless Quebecker Wheelchair Assassins, although legless and
confined to wheelchairs, nevertheless contrive to have situated large reflective devices across odd-numbered United States highways for the
purpose of disorienting and endangering northbound Americans, to have disrupted pipelines between processing points in the eastern
Reconfiguration's annular fusion grid, have been linked to attempts at systemic damage of the federally contracted Empire Waste Displacement's
launch and reception facilities on both sides of the Reconfigured intracontinental border, and, perhaps most infamously, derive their cell's own
sobriquet in the vox populi------
   "Wheelchair Assassins"------from the active practice of assassinating prominent Canadian officials who support or even tolerate what they------
the A.F.R.s, in infrequent public communiques------regard as both Quebec and Canada in íoío's "Sudetenlandization"
   by the------as the A.F.R. characterize it------same American-dominated Organization of North American Nations which forced ecologically
distorted and possibly mutagenic territory into their------the nation of Canada, and most specifically and intensively the province of Quebec------
aegis in the newly subsidized Year of the Whopper . ..' -- Struck, canted slightly in his desk-chair from the overdevelopment of his body's right side,
is also trying to carve up each of this diarrheatic G. T. Day, M.S. guy's clauses into less-long self-contained sentences that sound more earnest and
pubescent, like somebody earnestly struggling toward truth instead of flecking your forehead with spittle as he ranted grandiosely -- '. . . the
Wheelchair Assassins at these all too publicly familiar assassinations materializing, quote "as if from nowhere" unquote, masters of stealth, striking
terror into prominent, Canadian hearts, affording no warning excepting the ominous squeak of slow wheels, striking swiftly and without warning,
assassinating prominent Canadians and then dissolving back into the dark night' -- as opposed to a light night? Struck forces sudden air through
his full nose, producing a low and horn-like derisive sound -- 'striking always at night, a type of performative signature, to strike at night only,
leaving behind only sinuous networks of thin, double tracks in snow, dew, leaves, or earth, as performative signatures, such that a double sinuous
5 shaped line across the traditional fleur-de-lis motif of Quebecois Separatism is the A.F.R. cell's standard, its escutcheon or "symbol," if you will, in
their infrequent and always hostile communiques to the administrations of Canada and O.N.A.N. Such that, quote, "To hear the squeak," unquote,
is now an understood euphemismic locution among officials highly placed in Quebecois, Canadian, and O.N.A.N.ite power structures for instant,
terrifying, and violent death. And for the media, as well. As in, quote, "Before many thousands of shocked subscribers, newly elected Bloc
Quebecois leader Gilles Duceppe and an aide, guarded by no fewer than a dozen units of the Domestic Detail's elite mounted Cuirassiers,
nevertheless heard the squeak last night during a spontaneously disseminated address at the lakeside resort of Pointe Clare."*
   Struck, clutching his head with one hand, is trying to find euphemismic in the TP's Lex-Base.
   '. .. Affiliations, sometimes purported, between the Root Cult core of Les Assassins on one hand and the more extreme and violently subversive
of Quebec's Séparatisteur
   organizations------the Fronte de la Liberation de la Quebec, the Fils de Montcalm, the ultra right anti-Reconfigurative vishnu of the Bloc
Quebecois------tend, however, to be contradicted by both stated agendas------the conventional Separatist phalances demanding only the
independent secession of provincial Quebec and the elimination of Anglo-American cognates from public discourse, while the A.RR.s' stated aims
being nothing less total than the total return of all Reconfigured territories to American administration, the cessation of all E.W.D. airborne waste
displacement and ATHSCME rotary air mass displacement activity within 175 kilometers of Canadian soil, the removal of all fission/ waste/fusion
annulars north of the 42°-N. Parallel, and the secession of Canada in toto
   from the Organization of North American Nations------and by the fact that all too many
   prominent figures in the recent sociohistory of the Separatist movement------for e.g., Schnede, Charest, Remillard, both Sr. and Jr. Bouchards----
--have, in the last 24 months------particularly, in the violent and bloody autumn of the Year of the Trial-Size Dove Bar------"heard the squeak." `
   Struck's little TP's internal Lex files confirm vishnu, at least. Plus there's a kind of almost savage edge to the article's incoherence that Struck's
getting almost to like, a little: he keeps imagining the little hyphen of wrinkle Poutrincourt gets between her eyebrows when she doesn't follow
something and can't quite tell if it's your English's fault or her English's fault. 'Prior to Y.P.W.c.'s Freedom of Speculation Act, credible sociohistorical
data on the origins and evolution of Les Assassins des Fauteuils Rollents from obscure, adolescent, nihilistic Root Cult to one of the most feared
cells in the annals of Canadian extremism was regrettably patchy and dependent on the hearsay of sources whose scholarly veracity was of an
integrity somewhat less than unimpeachable.' Struck here pictures Thierry Poutrincourt, who tends to get that little annoyed-confusion wrinkle
sometimes even with the lucidest of term papers, lowering her tall head and charging into a wall. One sinus feels noticeably bigger than the other
sinus, and there's something not quite right with his neck from sitting hunched all this time, and he'd kill relatives for a quick DuBois.
   'Les Assassins des Fauteuils Rollents of Quebec are essentially cultists, locating both their political raison d'etre and their philosophical dasein
within the North American sociohistorical interval of intensive special interest diffraction that preceded------nay, one might daresay stood in integral
causal relation with respect to------the nearly simultaneous inaugurations of O.N.A.N.ite governance, continental Interdependence, and the
commercial subsidization of a lunar O.N.A.N. calendar. Like most Canadian cult extensions, however, the Wheelchair Assassins and their cultic
derivations have proven substantially more fanatical, less benign, less reasonable, and substantially more malignant------in sum, more difficult for
responsible authorities to anticipate, control, 4 CBC/PATHÉ 1200h.-0000h. Summary Cartridge * 911-24-04, 4 May Y.P.Wc., © Y.P. We., PATHÉ
Nouvelle Toujours, Ltd. interdict, or reason with than even the most passionate U.S. kabals. This scholarly essay concurs in many essential respects
with the thesis that Canadian and other non American Root Cults, in contrast to all but what Phelps and Phelps argue are isolated pockets of
antihistorical American stelliformism, persist so queerly in directing their reverent fealty toward principles, quote, "often not only isomorphic with
but activally opposed to the cultists' own individual pleasure, comfort, cut bono, or entertainment as to be all but outside the ken of both the
sophisticated predictive models of psychosocial science and the rudimentary comprehension of human reason."5'
   This all takes serious labor for Struck to decoct the gist out of and then recast in rather less uptown and more basic studential prose. Twice in
the hall outside his and Shaw's and Pemberton's room, Rader and Wagenknecht and some other 16's-sounding males go down the hall, all of them
together going 'Er, ah, ee, oo, ah, er, ah, ee .. .,' and so on. 'It is an accepted fact that Les Assassins' Root Cult, in a fashion typical of those whose
objects are divorced from the rational advancement of individual interest, takes, for its rites and personality, rituals intimately bound up with "Les
jeux pour-memes" formal competitive games whose end is less any sort of "prize" than it is a manner of basic identity: i.e., that is, "game" as
metaphysical environment and psychohistorical locus and geatalt.' Struck's own historical dad, during Jim's own childhood in Rancho Mirage, was
an inveterate red-wine-with-heavy-tranqs-on-the-side drinker, who used to make late-night phone calls to people he didn't know very well and
make statements he later had to retract at great length, until finally one autumn night the Dad had staggered out and attempted a one-and-a-half
tuck into the Struck family's backyard pool that he hadn't recalled had been drained, resulting in a neck brace for life that ended his career as a
low-80s golfer, resulting in incredible bitterness and family trauma, before little J.A.L.S. Jr. was shipped off to the Rolling Hills Academy.
   'It is, for example, largely conceded that Les Assassins' confinement to their epithetic wheelchairs can be traced to rural southwestern pre-
Experialist Quebec's infamous "Le ]eu du Prochain Train," and that the A.F.R.'s Root Cult itself was comprised largely or perhaps even entirely of
veteran devotees and practitioners of this savage, nihilistic, and mettle testing jeu pour-meme.
   ' "La Culte du Prochain Train," often translated as "The Cult of the Next Train," is known to have originated at least a decade prior to
Reconfiguration among the male offspring of asbestos, nickel and zinc miners in the desolate Papineau region of what was then extreme southwest
Quebec. The chilling game's competition and its upspringing cult soon spread throughout the network of non-ionized and pre-Interdependent
railroad lines which carried raw minerals south to Ottawa and the United States' Great Lake Ports.' Over Struck's little desk hangs a model airplane
made entirely from different parts of beer cans. While Inc was keen on the whole lurid mirror-across-highway terrorism thing of early O.N.A.N., and
Schacht's paper's focus was the violent French-Catholic protests against municipal fluoridation under Mulroney, Struck had picked the A.F.R.-and-
Russian-Roulettish-train-jumping-cult-thing connection, and was sticking to it with the same tenacity that kept him on the 18's A-squad despite a
serve that deLint described as resembling a debutante's curtsy. The plane's got flattened cans for wings, smunched-flat cans for wheels, part of a
tallboy for fuselage and snout.
   'As with many games, Le Jeu du Prochain Train was itself substantially simpler than 5 in Phelps and Phelps, The Cults of the Unwavering I: A
Field Guide to Cults of Currency Speculation, Melanin, Fitness, Bioflavinoids, Spectation, Assassination, Stasis, Property, Agoraphobia, Repute,
Celebrity, Acraphobia, Performance, Amway, Fame, Infamy, Deformity, Scopophobia, Syntax, Consumer Technology, Scopophilia, Presleyism,
Hunterism, Inner Children, Eros, Xenophobia, Surgical Enhancement, Motivational Rhetoric, Chronic Pain, Solipsism, Survivalism, Preterition, Anti-
Abortionism, Kevorkianism, Allergy, Albinism, Sport, Chiliasm, and Telentertainment in pre-O.N.A.N. North America, © Y.P.W. the organization of
the competition.' A cool smile from Struck. 'It was played after sunset at specified sites, specifically les passages a niveau de vote ferrée that
marked every rural Quebecker road's intersection with a railroad track. In the Year of the Whopper, there were over two thousand (2,000) such
intersections in the Papineau region alone, though not all saw heavy enough flow to accommodate the complexities of true competition.
   'Six boys, miners' sons, ages ten to roughly sixteen, Quebecois French speaking boys, line up on six railroad ties' juts just outside the track. Two
hundred sixteen (216) boys------never either more nor less------are involved in a night's opening rounds, organized into sixes, each group of six
taking its turn with a different train, standing on consecutive juts just outside one track, waiting, doubtless tense, awaiting the procession of a
fearsome bride, indeed. The night's heavily travelled crossing's schedule of trains is known to Lejeu du Prochain Train's episcopate of les directeurs
dejeu------older, post-adolescent boys, veterans of previous les jeux, many of them legless and in wheelchairs or------for the sons of asbestos
miners, many orphaned and desperately poor------on crude rolling boards.
   No timepieces are permitted the players, who are under the absolute discretion of the game's directeurs, whose decisions are final and often
brutally enforced. They all are silent, listening for the sound of the engine's whistle, a sound which is sad and cruel at the same time, as the sound
approaches and begins to subtly undergo Doppler Effects. They tense palely muscled legs beneath hand me down corduroys as the next train's one
white eye rounds the track's curve and bears down on the game's waiting boys.'
   Struck keeps bogging down in these parts where it seems like the guy just totally abandons a scholarly tone, and even probably starts making up
or hallucinating details which there's no way Jim Struck could represent himself as having been there to see, and he's blue-delete-looping all over
the place, plus grinding his eye and picking at his forehead, his two more or less constant responses to creative stress.
   'Le Jeu du Prochain Train itself is simplicity in motion. The object: Be the last of your round's six to jump from one side of the tracks to the
other------that is, across the tracks------before the train passes. Your only real opponents are your six's other five.
   Never is the train itself regarded as an opponent. The speeding, screaming train is regarded rather as le jeu'$ boundary, arena, and reason. Its
size, its speed down the extremely gradual north-to-south grade of what was then southwestern Quebec, and the precise mechanical specifications
of each scheduled train------these are known to the directeurs, they comprise the constants in a game the variables of which are the respective
wills of the six ranged along the track, and their estimates of one another's will to risk all to win.'
   Struck transposes clearly nonadolescent uptown material like this into: 'The variable of the game isn't so much a matter of the train, but the
player's courage and will.'
   'The last few instants, vanishingly small, when the player may hurl himself athwart the expanse of track, across timber ties, creosote stench,
gravel and scarred iron, amid the ear splitting scream of the whistle almost overhead, able to feel the huge push of terrible air from the transport's
cow catcher or express train's rounded nose, to go sprawling in the gravel past the tracks' other side and roll to see wheels and flanges, couplings
and driving rods, the furious back and forth of transverse axles, feeling the whistle's steam condense to drizzle all around------these few seconds
are known, familiar as their own pulse, to the boys who assemble and play.' Struck's now progressed to grinding the whole heel of his hand into his
eyesocket, producing a kind of ectoplasmic pinwheel of red in there. Did like even pre-bullet railroad engines have flanges and cowcatchers and
whistles that steamed?
   In a disastrous lapse, Struck copies hurl himself athwart, a decidedly un-Struckish-sounding verb phrase, verbatim into his text.
   '. . . that the true variable which renders le Jeu du Prochain Train a contest and not merely a game involves the nerve and heart and willingness
to risk all of any or all of the five waiting beside you at the track. How long can they wait? When will they choose? Their lives and limb worth how
much Queen-headed coin this night? More radical by far than the American youth automobile game of "Chicken" to which its principle is frequently
compared (five, not one, different wills to comparatively gauge, in addition to your own will's resolve, and no motion or action to distract you from
the tension of waiting motionlessly to move, waiting as one by one the other five quail and save themselves, leap to beat the train .. .,' and then
the sentence just ends, without even a close to the parenthesis, though Struck, with a canny sense for this sort of thing, knows the analogy to
Chicken'11 ring just the right bell, term-paper-wise.
   'Le Jeu's historic best, reportedly, however, ignore their five competitors completely, concentrating their entire attention on determining the last
viable instant in which to leap, regarding the last, final, and only true opponent in the game to be their own will, mettle, and intuition about the last
viable instant in which to leap. These nerveless few, le Jeu's finest------many of whom will go on to directeur future jeux (if not, often, to
membership in Les Assassins or its stelliform offshoots)------these nerveless and self-contained virtuosi never see their opponents' flinches or tics or
the darkenings at corduroys' crotches, none of the normal signs of will faltering which lesser players scan for------for the game's finest players
frequently close their eyes entirely as they wait, trusting the railroad ties' vibration and the whistle's pitch, as well as intuition, and fate, and
whatever numinous influences lie just beyond fate.' Struck at certain points imagines himself gathering this Wild Conceits guy's lapels together with
one hand and savagely and repeatedly slapping him with the other -- forehand, backhand, forehand.
   'The cult's game's principle is simple. The last of the six to jump before the train and land intact wins the round. The fifth through the second to
leap have lost, but acquitted themselves.
   'The first in a round to quail and jump walks home from there, alone under the moon, disgraced and ashamed.
   'But even the first to quail and jump has jumped. Far beyond prohibited, not to jump at all is regarded as impossible. To "perdre son coeur" and
not jump at all is outside le Jeu's limit. The possibility simply does not exist. It is unthinkable. Only once, in le Jeu du Prochain Train's extensive oral
history, has a miner's son not jumped, lost his heart and frozen, remaining on his jut as the round's train passed. This player later drowned. "Per-
dre son coeur" when it is mentioned at all, is known also as "Faire un Bernard Wayne," in dubious honor of this lone unjumping asbestos miner's
son, about whom little beyond his subsequent drowning in the Baskatong Reservoir is known, his name denoting a figure of ridicule and disgust
among speakers of the Papineau Region vulgate.' Disastrously, Struck blithely transposes this stuff too, with not even a miniature appliance-size
bulb flickering anywhere over his head.
   'The game's object is to jump last and land still fully limbed upon the opposite embankment.
   'Expresses are 30 k.p.h. faster than conventional transports, but a transport's cow catcher mangles. A boy struck head on by a moving train is
shot as from a cannon, knocked out of his shoes, describes a towering, flailing arc, and is transported home in a burlap sack. A player caught
beneath a wheel and run over is frequently spread out along a hundred red meters or more of reddened track, and is transported home in a
number of ceremonial asbestos and nickel mining shovels provided by the Jeu's older and frequently dismembered directeurs.
   'As happens more often, purportedly, a boy who has dived more than half way across the tracks when he is struck and hit, loses one or more
legs------either there on the spot, if lucky, or later, under surgical gas and orthopedic saws applied to what are customarily violently angled masses
of unrecognizably contuded meat.' The paradox here for Struck as plagiarist, who needs something with sufficient detail to be able to basically just
rehash, is that this thing here has almost too much detail, much of it purple; it doesn't even seem all that scholarly; it seems more like the Wild
Conceits Bayside C.C. guy seemed to get more and more tipsy as the thing went on until he felt free to make a lot of it up, like e.g. the contuded-
meat bits, etc. What's interesting to Hal Incandenza about his take on Struck, sometimes Pemulis, Evan Ingersoll, et al. is that congenital plagiarists
put so much more work into camouflaging their plagiarism than it would take just to write up an assignment from conceptual scratch. It usually
seems like plagiarists aren't lazy so much as kind of navigationally insecure. They have trouble navigating without a detailed map's assurance that
somebody has been this way before them. About this incredible painstaking care to hide and camouflage the plagiarism -- whether it's dishonesty
or a kind of kleptomaniacal thrill-seeking or what -- Hal hasn't developed much of any sort of take.
   'It is frightfully simple and straightforward. Sometimes the last of the six to jump is struck; then the second to last leaper becomes the last and
victor, and advances, each winner literally "surviving" into the game's next round, a sort of sextupled semi final, six rounds of six Canadian boys
each: the, quote, "Les Trente-Six" for the evening. the initial rounds' boys------those who have been neither the last nor the disgraceful first to
leap------are permitted to stay at the le passage a niveau de vote ferree, assembled to become the semi finals' silent audience. The entire Le Jeu
du Prochain Train is customarily conducted in silence.' In a disastrous and maybe unconsciously self-destructive set of lapses, Struck rehabilitates
the prose but keeps a lot of the hallucinatory specific descriptive stuff in, unfootnoted, though there's obviously no way he could pretend to have
been there.
   'The surviving losers from among the Les Trente-Six then swell the ranks of the silent gallery as the six nerveless winners------the finalists, this
night's "attendants longtemps ses tours"------some bleeding or gray with shock, survivors already of two separate long delayed leaps and
hairbreadth escapes, eyes blank or closed, mouths working in savored distaste, await the nightly 2359 Express, the ultra ionized "Le Train de la
Foudre" from Mont Tremblant to Ottawa. They will jump athwart the tracks in front of its high speed nose at the final moment, each trying to be
the last to leap and live. It is not rare for several of the le Jeu's finalists to be struck.' Struck tries to decide whether it'd be unrealistic or unself-
consciously realistic to keep using his own name as a verb -- would a man with anything to camouflage use his own name as a verb?
   '. . . that several among the La Culte du Prochain Train's survivors and organizational directorate went on to found and comprise Les Assassins
des Fauteuils Rollents is beyond sociohistorical dispute, though the precise ideological relation between the B.S. era's simultaneously chivalric and
nihilistic Cult of the Train's savage tournaments and the present's limbless cell of anti-O.N.A.N. extremists remains the subject of the same scholarly
debate that surrounds the evolution of northern Quebec's La Culte de Baiser Sans Fin into the not particularly dreaded but media savvy Fils de
Montcalm cell credited with the helicoptered dropping of the 12 meter, human waste filled, pie shell onto the rostrum of U.S. President Gentle's
second Inaugural.
   'As with the La Culte du Prochain Train, the Cult of the Endless Kiss of the iron mining regions surrounding the Gulf of St. Lawrence, coalesced
around a periodic, tournament style competition, this one comprised of 64 adolescent Canadian participants, of whom one half were female.6 Thus,
the first round pitted 32 couples, each of which consisted of one male and one female Quebecker.' Struck is trying to phone Hal, but gets only his
room's wearisome phone-machine-message; can you ever say pitted without some kind of against in there someplace later in the sentence? Struck
envisions the Wild Conceit scholar utterly strafed by this time, the guy's eyes crossed and his head lolling and having to cover one eye with a hand
just to see a single screen, and typing with his nose. But with the apparent self-destructive credulity that characterizes many plagiarists, no matter
how gifted, Struck goes ahead and puts in the complementless pitted, imagining forehand and backhand slaps all the while. 'Of each pair, one half,
designated by lot, filled his or her lungs to capacity with inhaled air, while the other exhaled maximally to empty his or hers. Their mouths were
then fitted together and quickly sealed by an
   6
     Except in certain very esoteric variations on the game.

    organizing cultist with occlusive tape, who then expertly employed the thumb and forefinger of both hands to seal the combatants' nostrils. Thus,
the battle of the Endless Kiss had been joined. The entire lung contents of the designatedly inhaled player was then exhaled orally into the emptied
lungs of his or her opponent, who in turn exhaled the inhalation back to its original owner, and so forth, back and forth, the same air being traded
back and forth, with oxygen and carbon dioxide ratios becoming progressively more Spartan, until the organizer holding their nostrils closed
officially declared one combatant or the other to be "evanoui" or, "swooned," either fallen to the ground or out on his or her feet. The theoretics of
the contest lends itself to an appreciation of the patient, attritive, grinding down tactics of traditional Quebecois Séparatisteurs such as Les Fils de
Montcalm and the Fronte de la Liberation du Quebec, as opposed to the viciousness and brinksmanship of "Le Prochain Train"'s Root Cult's disabled
heirs. The figurative object of the "Bai$ser" competition appears------according to Phelps and Phelps------to involve using what one is given with
maximally exhaustive levels of efficiency and endurance before excreting it back whence it came, a stoic stance toward waste utilization that the
Phelps somewhat cavalierly employ to illuminate the Montcalmistes' relative indifference to a continental Reconfiguration that constitutes Les
Assassins des Fauteuils Rollents' whole "raison de la guerre outrance" 'b
    a. Pimple cream.
b. 'Reason for all-out war,' which Struck inserts without bothering even to check for the definition Day'd been too befogged to give, which is in and
of itself almost suicidal, given that Poutrincourt knows exactly how much French facility Struck's got, or rather hasn't.
295
      (she thought then)
296
    Some of her and Jim's best arguments had been over the connotations of 'Everybody's a critic,' which Jim had liked to repeat with all different
shades and pitches of ironic double-edge.
297
    Joelle van Dyne and Orin Incandenza each remember themselves as the original approachee. It's unclear which if cither's memory is accurate,
though it's noteworthy that this is one of only two total times Orin has perceived himself as the approachee, the other being the 'Swiss hand-model'
on whose nude flank he's been furiously tracing infinity signs all during the Moment Subject's absence.
298
    = point of view.
299
    In the Chestnut Hills Shopping Center on Boylston/Rte. 9, which the E.T.A. A-squad staggers past several times a week, on runs -- a chain, but
a very top-shelf and fine one, and the Brookline Legal puts on a particularly fine marine spread, and the boniface seemed to know Dr. Incandenza
and called him by name, and brought him a double bonded without being asked.
300
    Jargon: Film/Cartridge Studies.
301
    Trilateral North American immigration bureaucracy.
302
    Boston AA jargon. Y.E.T. is 'You're Eligible Too,' a denial-buster for those who compare others' ghastly consequences to their own so far, the
point being to get you to see the street-guy with socks for gloves drinking Listerine at O7OOh. as just slightly farther down the same road you're
on, when you Come In. Or something close to that.
303
    The bureaucracy of Quebecois pensions, which had ruled against buying anything more than a used Kenbeck pacemaker for Marathe's father,
now deceased.
304
    See Note 304 supra.
305
    Marathe's malentendu of live-in, 316. Like e.g. the times C.T. and the Moms would come out to Logan to pick Mario and Himself up from a
filming trip, Mario lugging gear, Himself damp and pasty from the cabin pressure and not enough leg-room and his sportcoat pockets always
clicking with little plastic bottles with unopenable caps, and in the car up to Enfield Mario's uncle would keep up an Opheliac mad monologue of
chatter that would get Himself's poor teeth grinding so bad that when they pulled over to the breakdown lane and Mario came around to open the
door and let Himself lean out and be ill there'd be grit in the throw-up that came out, white dental visible grit, from all the grinding.
306
307
     © B.S. 1981, Routledge & Kegan Paul Pic, London UK, wildly expensive hdcover; not on disk.
308
     Maine having been lost altogether, recall.
309
     Incandenza family idiom for leftovers.
310
     Main library, M.I.T., East Cambridge.
    311
        Q.v. for a confirming example !93Oh. Thurs., 12 November Y.D.A.U., Rm. 204 Sub-dorm B:
    'No, look, it's still Rise Over Run. The derivative's the slope of the tangent at some point along the function. It doesn't matter what point until
they give you the point on the test.'
    'Will this even be on the Boards? Do they go past trig?'
    'This is fucking trig. They'll give you word problems that may involve changing quantities -- something accelerating, a voltage, inflation of
O.N.A.N. currency over U.S. currency. Differentiation'll save you half the time, all those triangles inside triangles to figure change with trig. Trig's a
Unit-bender on rate-changes. Derivatives're just trig with some imagination. You imagine the points moving inexorably toward each other until for
all practical purposes they're the same point. The slope of a defined line becomes the slope of a tangent to one point.'
    'One point that's in fact actually two points?'
    'You use your goddamn imagination, Inc, plus a couple prescribed limits. Which they won't fuck with you on limits on the general test, trust me.
This is a big pink titty compared to an Eschaton calculation. You move the two points you're doing Rise-over-Run on infitesimally close together,
you end up with a plug-in formula.'
    'Can I tell you about my dream now and then we'll use the momentum from that to plow through this?'
    'Just write this on your wrist or something. Function x, exponent n, the derivative's going to be nx + xn-1 for any kind of first-order rate-of-
increase thing they're going to ask you. This assumes a definable limit, of course, which no way they're going to fuck with you on limits on the
fucking Boards.'
    'It was a DMZ-dream.'
    'Do you see how you're going to apply this to a rate-of-increase-type little story they'll pose?'
    'It involved your experimental soldier, the massive dose.'
    'Let me just close this door, here.'
    'It was the Leavenworth convict. The one you said had left the planet. The one belting out Ethel Merman. It was horrific, Mikey. In the dream I
was the soldier.'
    'So you're now going to assume a real you-know-what experience will be similar to the experience of a nightmare.'
    'Aha. Why nightmare? Why do you assume it was a nightmare? Did I use the word nightmare?'
    'You used the word horrific. I assume it wasn't a romp through the heather.'
    'In the dream the horror was that I wasn't really singing "There's No Business Like Show Business." I was really screaming for help. I was
screaming like "Help! I'm screaming for help and everybody's acting as if I'm singing Ethel Merman covers! It's me! It's me, screaming for help!" `
    'A Rusk-level dream, Inc. A standard nobody-understands-me dream. The DMZ and Mermanization were incidental.'
    'There was a quality of loneliness to it, though. Unlike anything. To be screaming that I'm screaming for help instead of singing a show-tune and
to have the wardens and doctors gathered around snapping their fingers and tapping their feet.'
    'Have I mentioned DMZ doesn't show up on a G.C./M.S.? Struck tracked this down off an obscure Digestive-Flora footnote. It's the fitviavi-mold
base. If the stuff shows up at all it shows as a slight case of unbalanced yeast.'
    'I thought only girls got yeast.'
    'Inc, don't be so fucking naïve. Data number two is Struck is halfway toward nailing down that this stuff's original intent was to induce what they
called quote transcendent experiences in get this chronic alcoholics in the like 1960s at Verdun Protestant Hospital in Montreal.'
    'How come everywhere I turn this fall now everybody's suddenly mentioning Quebec in all kinds of radically different contexts? Orin's calling with
some protracted obsession about anti-O.N.A.N. Québecers.'
    '. . . Tavis up and announces Quebec are the lambs in this year's fundraiser. Your Mum's from Quebec.'
    'And then this term of all terms I take Poutrincourt's insurgency class, which is basically a Québecathon.' .
    'Oh I definitely I'd suspect some kind of conspiracy or trap. It's obvious everything's pointing toward getting you in a cell belting out Mermanalia.
Inc, I think your hinges are starting to squeak. I think this is what plateaux-hopping up to the top does to somebody. I think a meaningful
transcendent DMZ-type non-uremic-fallout interlude before Tucson is just what the carpenter ordered, for the old hinges. Keep you from going
back to just smoking that Bob Hope day in day out when the test's up. Shit'll kill your lungs. Shit'll make you fat, soft, moist and pale, Inc. Seen it
happen. You need something more than a 30-day cleanout. The tu-sais-qué could be just the reconfiguration you need to start branching out,
leave the Bob Hope alone, find something you can take to college or the Show and not get paralyzed. Shit'll paralyze you over time, Incblob. Saw it
happen time and over, back in the neighborhood. Once-promising stand-up guys spending their lives in front of the TP, eating Nutter Butters and
whacking off into an old sock. The shit-fairy moves in with luggage for an extended stay, Inc. Plus indecisive? You haven't seen indecisive til you've
seen a guy with little fat-titties slumped in a chair in his tenth year of nonstop Bob Hope. It's not pretty. Incster my friend it's not pretty at all. A
transcendent experience with me and the Axhandle could be just what the hinges are squeaking for. Be around some other people for a change.
Don't make me sit there with just Axhandle babbling about Yale. Leave the Visine at home.'
    'Was it transcendent? The term in Struck's literature? Or was it transcendental?'
    ' 's the difference for Christ's sake?'
    'Mike, what if I said I've been moving toward more than just a month off.'
    'Abandon All Hope.3 This what I was talking.'
    'I mean maybe make a decision. Forever. What if it was that I was doing it more and more and it was getting less fun but I was still doing it
more and more, and the only way to moderate would be to like wave a hankie at it altogether.'
    'I applaud. Some low-risk transcendentalism with me and the Human Hatchet could be just the impotence for this kind of like major re--'
    'But it'd be everything. Blue Flames, the odd 'drine. If I do anything I know I'd go back to the Bob. I'd drop Madame Psychosis with you guys
and all my firmest resolve would melt and I'd have the one-hitter out and be sniveling at you to spring some eternal Hope on me.'
    'You're so naïve, Inc. You're so sharp in one way and such a little bald little fat-legged baby in the woods in others. You think you're just going to
go Here I go, deciding, and reverse total thrust and quit everything?'
    'What I said was what if.'
    'Hal, you are my friend, and I've been friends to you in ways you don't even have a clue. So brace yourself for a growth-spurt. You want to quit
because you're starting to see you need it, and --'
    'That's exactly it. Peems, think how horrible that'd be, if somebody needed it. Not just liked it a great great great deal. Needing it becomes a
whole separate order of. ... It seems horrific. It seems like the difference between really loving something and being --'
    'Say the word, Inc.'
    'Because you know why? What if it's true? The word. What if you are? So the answer's just walk away? If you're addicted you need it, Hallie, and
if you need it what do you imagine happens if you just hoist the white flag and try to go on without it, without anything?'
    'You lose your mind, Inc. You die inside. What happens if you try and go without something the machine needs? Food, moisture, sleep, O2?
What happens to the machine? Think about it.'
    'You were just now applauding the idea of Abandoning All Hope. You were just invoking an image of me with breasts, masturbating into laundry,
with cobwebs between my ass and a chair.'
    'That's the Bob. I didn't hear me say everything. If you need the Bob, Inc, you can only quit the Bob if you move onward and up to something
else.'
    'Harder drugs. Just like those old filmstrips about pot opening the door to larger drugs, where Jiminy Cricket --'
    'Oh fuck you. It doesn't have to be harder. It just has to be something. I know guys quit heroin, coke. How? They make the strategic move to a
case a day of Coors. Or to methadone, whatever. I know hard-drinking guys Inc that got off the booze by switching to the Bob Hope. Me myself,
you've seen, I switch all the time. The trick is the right switch for a man's wiring. I'm saying a real cobweb-blaster with me and Axford after the
Fundraiser could help you get some serious perspective, cut the babytalk and sweeping bullshit decisions there's no way you can do and start
getting a real handle on how you're going to branch out away from this Bob thing, which I applaud the getting away from the Bob for you, Inc, it's
not your thing, you were starting to get that look of a guy that'll end up with tits.'
    'So you're in a very subtle way lobbying for a DMZ-drop by saying you don't believe I could simply quit everything. Since you sure don't plan to
quit. With your left eye wobbling all over the place. You haven't even quit the Tenuate. "Winners don't ever have to quit" and all deLint's little --'
    'I didn't hear me say none of that. And I think you probably could quit it all. For a while. You're not a pussy. You've got balls, I know. I bet you
could gut it out.'
    'For a while, you're saying.'
    'And but what do you think would happen after a while, though? Without something you need?
    'What, you're saying I'd grab my chest and keel over? Clutch my head in the middle of a Tap & Whack and die of an aneurism like that girl last
year at Atwood?'
    'No. But you'd die inside. Maybe outside too. But what I've seen, if you're the real thing and need it and just cut yourself off of it altogether, you
die inside. You lose your mind. I've seen it happen. Cold Turkey they call it, the Bird. White-knuckling. Guys that'd just quit everything because they
were in too deep and quit it all and just died.'
    'A Clipperton, you mean? You're saying Himself killed himself because he got sober? Because he didn't get sober. There was a thing of Wild
Turkey right there on the counter by the oven he blew his fucking head up with. So don't try to kertwang me with him, Mike.'
    'Inc, what I know about your Da could be inscribed with a blunt crayon along the rim of a shot glass. I'm talking guys I know. Wolf Spiders.
Allston guys, that quit. Some did a Clipperton, yes. Some ended up in the Mental Marriott. Some got through by they joined NA or a cult or some
bug-eyed church and went around with ties talking about Jesus or Surrendering, but that shit's not going to work for you because you're too sharp
to ever buy the God-Squad shit. Most nothing big happened, that needed it and quit. They got up and went to work and came home and ate and
went to sleep and got up, day after day. But dead. Like machines; you could almost see the keys in their backs. You looked into their maps and
something was gone. The walking dead. They loved it so much they needed it and gave it up and now they were waiting to die. Something was all
over, inside.'
    'Their joie de vivre. The fire in the belly.'
    'Hal, it's been what, now, for you, two-and-a-half days without? three days? How you feeling in there already, brother?'
    'I'm all right.'
    'Uh-huh. Incpuddle, all I know's I'm your friend. I am. You don't want to communate with the Madame, you can hold me and Ax's purses for us.
You do what you want and point me toward whoever tells you different. I'm just giving you the advice to look a little further past that second of
deciding something I know you won't let yourself take back.'
    'Some vital part of my like personhood would die without something to ingest. This is your view.'
    'Sometimes you don't listen real well, Hallie. That's all right. Spend some time figuring out this needing. Like what part of you's come to need it,
do you think.'
    'You're alleging that's the part that'll die.'
    'Just whatever part you feel has come to need what you're planning to take away from it.'
    'The part that's dependent or incomplete, you mean. The addict.'1
    'That's just a word.'
a. q.v. Note 334 sub.
312
     Johnette F., whose very first stepmother had been a Chelsea MA police officer, was conditioned in early childhood to refer to police as 'police' or
'the Law,' since most B.P.D. personnel find the street term the Finest sardonic.
313
     People outside the Boston AA community always use The and say The Ennet House; this is one way to always tell somebody new or from
outside the community.
    314
        17 NOVEMBER -- YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT Sometimes at odd little times of day the E.T.A. males' locker room
downstairs in Comm.-Ad. is empty, and you can go in there and sort of moon around and listen to the showers drip and the drains gurgle. You can
feel the odd stunned quality customarily crowded places have at empty times. You can take your time dressing, flex in front of the big plate mirror
over the sink; the mirror has projecting side-mirrors so you can check out the old biceps from either side, see the jawline in profile, practice
expressions, try to look all natural and uncomposed so you can try to see what you really might normally look like to other people. The air in the
locker room hangs heavy with the smells of underarms, deodorant, benzoin, camphonated powder, serious feet, old steam. Also Lemon Pledge and
a slight smell of electrical burn from overused blow-dryers. Traces of powder and fuller's earth3 on the blue carpeting, down in too deep to get out
without a steamer. You can take a comb out of the big jar of Barbicide on the shelf by the sink, and like a .38-caliber blow-dryer, and experiment
boldly. It's the best mirror in the Academy, intricately lit from all perspectives. Dr. J. O. Incandenza knew his adolescents. At slack times, some-
times head custodian Dave ('F.D.V.') Harde can be found in here, taking a tiny nap on one of the benches that run in front of the lockers, which he
claims the benches do something palliative for his spinal funiculi. More often there's one of Dave's incredibly old and interchangeable menial-task
janitors in here running a carpet sweeper or spraying industrial disinfectant in the urinals. You can go into the shower area and not turn the water
on and sing, really let go. Michael Pemulis's own vocals sound pro-quality good to him, but only when he's surrounded by shower-tile. Sometimes
when it's empty in here you can catch snatches of voices and intriguing feminine-hygienic noises from the females' locker room on the other side of
the lockers' wall.
    At most other times of day, your certain type of more delicately constituted E.T.A. jr. uses the primitive subdorm hall showers and sinks and
avoids the packed locker room at almost all costs. No way Western man ever should have conceived of commodes and hot showers in the same
crowded air-space. T. Schacht can clear out most of a steamy locker room just by lumbering into a commode-stall and driving the latch home with
a certain purposeful force.
    The prorectors have their own showers in a kind of lounge near their rooms in the secondary tunnel, with a Viewer and recliners and a little
fridgelet and a dicky-proof door.
    When M. M. Pemulis came down to dress for P.M.S at about 1420h.,b the only people in the locker room were 14-A lobber nonpareil Todd
Possalthwaite, hunched and weeping, and Keith Freer, whom Pemulis was to play and who looked in no hurry to get dressed and out there to play,
and could very possibly have been the thing that was making Postal Weight weep. The so-called 'Viking' was shirtless and had a towel around his
neck and was at the mirror ministering to his skin. He had high hard white-blond hair and an extremely muscular neck and lower jaw, with a certain
type of protrusive gonions that made his upper face look tapered and sly. His hair always reminded Hal Incandenza of frozen surf, Hal said. Todd
Possalthwaite was near-nude and hunched on the bench under his locker, his face in his hands, with its nose's white bandages visible through
spread fingers, weeping softly, shoulders trembling.
   Pemulis, who's Postal Weight's Big Buddy and sort of lob-and-Eschaton-mentor and genuinely likes the kid, dropped his gear and gave him a sort
of male-affectionate fake one-two punch like Think Fast. ' 's the nose, Todder?' Like all of them, Pemulis could do his locker's combination by feel,
from months and years of constant combination-doing. He was looking all around himself and the room. Freer made a slight noise when Pemulis
asked the Postman if there was anything he could do.
   Nothing's true,' Postal Weight sobbed, his voice palm-muffled, rocking slightly on the bench. His locker was open and little-boy cluttered. He was
wearing only an an unbuttoned little flannel shirt and a Johnson & Johnson jr. jock strap, and had tiny white feetc and delicate little shell-like toes.
He was supposed to be in Donni Stott's Valley-Map laugher right now, Pemulis knew.
   'What, metaphysical angst at thirteen?' Pemulis directs the question to the quote-Viking's reflection's eye in the mirror. Freer's back is tapered
and uncolloped and for a tennis player's back has superb latissimal definition but is mottled slightly from repeated applications and defoliations of
Pledge, Freer being a profligate Pledge-user because he is complexion-obsessed and has the sort of Nordicular skin that peels instead of tanning.
He still has his jeans and loafers on, Pemulis sees. Pemulis keeps waiting for the distinctive attitudinal upswing of two pre-match Tenuate
spansules.d Pemulis's locker is both full and very precisely ordered, practically alphabetized, like the trunk of an experienced seaman.
Disassemblable scale and armamentarium and mood-altering substances used to be concealed in several factory-concealed niches in the special
system of niche-riddled portable shelving Pemulis had installed at age 15. Plus small cloth packets of ground cayenne pepper, to foil the always-
remotely-possible sniffer-dog, when he was a callow youth. This was before the discovery of the ultimate entrepot above the false ceiling in
Subdorm B's male hallway.
   'Just a disappointed dinkle.' Freer's chuckle tends to be mirthless. 'What I could get out of him before the waterworks, Postal Weight's old man
promised him so-and-so if the kid accomplishes thus-and-such.' His speech was distorted because he was ballooning his cheek with his tongue and
applying flesh-tinted cream to a possible pimple there. 'And the Postmaster here feels like he's held up his side of the accomplishment, and now I
get the drift Daddy's backing out.'
   Possalthwaite's shoulders continued to tremble as he cried into his hands.
   'In other words welching you're saying the Dad is,' Pemulis said to Freer.
   'I gather now the Dad's trying to restructure the original deal all of a sudden.'
   Pemulis undid his belt. 'The dangled carrot's snatched away, the brass ring plays hard to get, to coin a maxim.'
   'Something about Disney World, before the wa-wa started.'
   Pemulis removed his nonplay sneakers by scraping downward at one heel with the other sneaker's toe, looking down into the tender little whorl
in the center of Possalth-waite's hair. He'd never be so ephebic as to verbally ask Freer if he had plans to suit up so they could get out there; he'd
never let Freer think he was renting Freer space in his head before the match started. 'Postman, is this because of the Eschaton incident? Is it
because of the nose? Because I can get on the horn and tell old Postal Weight Sr. they're blaming nobody under 17, it turns out, you should tell
him, Todder. There's whole land-barges of shit, but none of it's spraying in you guys's direction, you should take comfort.'
   'Nothing's true," Possalthwaite keened, not looking up, muffled, ílat-nippled, fatless in the young gut, feet spectral below his legs' brown,
rocking, shaking his head, looking terribly young and innocently vulnerable, sort of pre-moral. Little white strips of bandage protuded from his
palms' outer edges, from I.-Day's apocalypse.
   'Well, not much is fair, anyway,' Pemulis conceded. The Viking made a noise at himself.
   Pemulis calls Postal Weight's father up on-screen. Minneapolis-area developer. Malls, corporate parks, bustling places at the edges of roaring
beltways. Late forties, slim, an overmanaged tan, a little oversharp in the dress dept., with a motivational-seminar-type hard-sell charm. A dagger
of a Dad, with a pencil mustache and blinding shoe-leather. He tried to conjure an image of this paternal figure hitting Keith Freer on the noggin
with a rolling pin and a bald cartoon lump rising from Freer's skull. (Pemulis calculates a win or even three-setter w/ Freer would mean a place on
the WhataBurger plane, is why he's willing to violate a kind of personal honor-code and take pre-match Tenuate, which even with the 36-hour-
elimination curve is kind of cavalier, given that he and Inc'd escaped on-spot urinalysis only because Pemulis implied to Mrs. Incandenza that he'd
tell the Incster about Avril having some sort of major-sport interlude with John Wayne, and Avril is kind of a coldly-biding-her-time-not-to-be-
fucked-with administrative figure, and along with C. ['Gretel the Cross-Sectioned Cow'] Tavis isn't exactly a fan of Pemulis anyway, certainly since
the electrified-Rusk-doorknob-and-litigation incident. The 'drines didn't seem to be kicking in. Instead of the surge of stomachless competitive
verve, all Pemulis felt was a slight unpleasant spaciness and a kind of enforced-feeling dryness in his eyes and mouth, like he's facing into a warm
wind.) Pemulis had never once seen his own Da in anything other than a white Hanes T-shirt gone permanent yellow under the arms.
   'Nothing's fair because nothing's true,' Possalthwaite wept into his palms. His little flannel shoulders shook.
   Something old in one of the shower drains sighed and gurgled, a nauseous sound.
   'Buck up.' Pemulis was removing all necessary match-articles and refolding them and placing them in his noncomplimentary Dunlop gear-bag
with military precision. He put a foot on the bench and looked briefly to either side. 'Because if that's your burr then rest in my assurance,
Postalcode: certain things are rock-solid, high-grade true.'
   Freer had made a pincer of his fingers and was at the other cheek. 'Let him cry. Let baby have his dinkle. Piss and moan. Thirteen for Christ's
sake. A kid thirteen hasn't even been in the same room with real disappointment yet. Hasn't even locked eyes across a room with real disillusion
and and frustration and pain. Thirteen: pain's a rumor. What's the word. Angst. Baby wouldn't know genuine-article angst if it walked up and got
him in a headlock.'
   'Not like real true real possible-little-cheek-pimple angst, Vike, hey?'
   'Flip it over and squat, Pemulis,' without bothering to look. Both Pemulis and Freer had pronounced a hard g in angst, Hal would have observed.
The Viking contorted his mouth and raised his big chin to check the flesh of his jaw, turning slightly to use the side-mirrors as well.
   Pemulis smiled broadly, trying to envision Keith Freer sitting in a canvas restraint-wrap in full lotus, staring blankly, hitting all the high notes in
'No Business Like Show Business' as orderlies in boiled whites and prim nurses in bent hats stand around snapping their fingers, clean white cheap
institutional-care sneakers tapping noiselessly through all eternity. He was down to chinos and bare light-brown feet. He considered a blue T-shirt
with a black wolf-spider on it v. a coincidentally red-on-gray T-shirt that had 'Vodka is the Enemy of Production' in presumably Russian. His good
four Dunlop sticks were stacked on the bench to Possalthwaite's left. He picked up two and tested the strings' tension by hitting the side of one
stick's head against the the strung face of the other and listening to the strings and then switching sticks and repeating the process. The exact right
tension has a certain pitch. Midsized Dunlop Enqvist TL Composites. $304.95 U.S. retail. Real catgut strings have a kind of a dentalish sweet stink.
The dot-and-circumflex logo. He didn't much look at Possalthwaite. He chose the Cyrillic shirt with the bottle-glyph. He rolled it up and put his head
through the head-hole first, his late great Da's old-fashioned way. The upscaler kids here all did the arm-holes first. Then they did the head. You
can also tell the scholarship kids because for some reason they put on a sock and a shoe and then a sock and a shoe. See for instance Wayne,
who'd been in their room right after lunch when Pemulis had made the decision to come up for some pre-match Tenuate. Wayne's room was right
nearby and he was standing there over Troeltsch's pharmacopic bedside table with no shirt and wet hair, rheumy-eyed and shiny-nostriled from
moisturizer on his Kleenex-chafed nostrils. The Viking was squeezing a damp tennis ball with his left hand while he scanned his forehead by mostly
feel. Pemulis's psychic counter-strategy was not to appear in any hurry to dress and stretch and get out there either. Pemulis -- who feared and
hated unauthorized people being in his room, and who was constantly on Schacht's back about forgetting to lock up when he left, and who wasn't
intimidated by Wayne's talent and success and affectless reserve, but was cautious around him, John Wayne, sort of the way a formidable predator
will be unintimidated but cautious around another formidable predator, particularly since the virtuosic but tense performance in a certain
administrative office a week ago, which had been mentioned by neither man -- had coolly asked Wayne if he could help him, and Wayne had just
as coolly not looked up from rattling through sickly Jim Troeltsch's bedside table's stuff and said he'd come in for some of Troeltsch's Seldane6,
which Pemulis had indeed heard Troeltsch at breakfast describing to a nose-blowing Wayne as the battlefield-nuke of anti-histamines that didn't
make you too drowsy to function at an incredibly high level of function. Pemulis adjusted his jock's rear straps, trying to remember this Wayne-
memory's point. Wayne had wanted a clear head and high pulmonary function because he was down to play the Syrian Satelliter in an informal
exhibition at I5l5h. Wayne hadn't offered this explanation; Pemulis got it off the e-board. One reason Pemulis was cautiously unassertive about
Wayne's unauthorized presence in the room was the leaflet, which given a certain office-incident it wasn't impossible Wayne might choose to
suspect seeing Pemulis's hand in the Olde-English-fonted leaflet up at various boards and inserted on the E.T.A. TPs' communal e-board for 11/14
announcing a joint John Wayne/Dr. Avril Incandenza arithmetic presentation to the pre-quadrivial 14-and-Unders on how 17 can actually go into 56
way more than 3.294 times. The point was that the half-dressed Wayne had been standing there with one foot bare and one in a sock and shoe.
Pemulis shook his head slightly and looked down at Possalthwaite and tried to gather spit.
   The speaker out up by the clock in the cement hall by the sauna crackled to life for the start of weekly WETA, with its glass-shattering Joan
Sutherland theme. Pemulis put his street-sneakers on his street-shoe shelf. 'Buck up, T.P. It's just an angst-spasm. You're just reeling from a
temporary paternal kertwang. Philosophical truth's jutting out all over the place. Disney World or no. Nose or no. Eschaton lives on, believe me.
Underground or no. You have a calling, a talent. A missileman of your caliber. Reach down and rally, me little button.'
   Possalthwaite had taken his face from his hands and was staring stonily up somewhere past Pemulis, lips moving in the habitual sucking reflex
for which he took so much guff. His face had the pink scrubbed look of a crying child all right. His hands had left brown spiders of tincture of
benzoin on his cheeks. He had two little smudges of bruise under the eyes. He sniffed meatily through a nose still covered in horizontal strips of
surgical tape. 'I ab dot a little button.'
   'That's what all the little buttons say, kid,' the Viking said levelly, removing something from a nostril with tweezers. Pemulis's sinuses felt like
four-laners and his sense of smell was a lot keener than a man in a locker room might wish. Freer's locker next to Gloeckner's next to good old
Inc's was agape, the bolted colposcope gleaming in the overhead lights and his Fox large-head sticks a nauseous West-Coast fluorescent orange
with the trademark fox-glyph painted on the strings.
   Possalthwaite scratched at one foot with the nails of the other foot. 'If you can't trust your folks. . .'
   'Let me both validate and remind you that the kertwang you're reeling under is emotion-based and not fact-based.'
   Possalthwaite opened his mouth.
   'You're getting ready to say if you can't trust the ostensively loving patriarchal bosom you can't trust anyone at all, and if you can't trust people
what can you trust, in terms of unvarying dependability, Postal Weight, am I right?'
   'Oh Jesus H. Christmastree here it comes,' the Viking said to his forehead's reflection.
   Pemulis was putting on a sock and a shoe, his mouth right down by Postal Weight's ear. 'This is not a bullshit problem. This is a like serious
emotiono-philosophical deal you're confronting. I think it's a good sign you're coming to me instead of holding it all impactedly inside.'
   'Who's coming to you?' Freer turned the big face this way and that. 'He was already in here having his little wa-wa-dinkle.'
   Pemulis tried envisioning Keith Freer being bent over the net by Bedouins in purple turbans and roundly buggered, making the sort of sounds
Leith's historical b/w J. Gleason made when in pain. To Possalthwaite he was saying 'Cause I can remember staring down the exact same-type
thing, though from a more like philosophicalized kertwang than emotions.'
   Freer said 'Do not ask him what he means, kid.'
   Then a couple of 16s came in, G. ('Yardguard') Rader and a marginal Slavic kid whose first name was Zoltan and whose last name nobody could
pronounce, and ignored Freer's advice to run for their lives because the good Dr. Pemulis had been prescribing for himself again and was going to
begin to rant, and threw down their gear and proceeded immediately to get fresh towels from the dispenser over by the showers and to snap them
at each other.
   'What do you mean?' said Possalthwaite.
   'The snare closes, the trap closes, here it comes.'
   Rader rolled his wrists and spiraled the towel for what he called maximum painage. The Viking turned and said if he felt so much as a terrycloth
breeze on this personal ass right here they were toast, the two. Pemulis was taking racquets out. E.T.A.'s male 16s were as a group inbent,
conspiratorial, glandular, cliqueish. They excluded anyone not in their set. They had techniques and strategems of exclusion way more advanced
than the 18s or 14s. (They tended to exclude Stice, mostly because he roomed with Coyle and drilled a lot of the time up with the 18s, and mixed
with them, and more recently Kornspan, excluded, basically because he was cretinous and cruel and now consensually suspected of having tortured
and killed the two collarless cats whose burnt corpses had been found on the hillside during pre-drill sprints a couple weeks back.) They had their
own dialect and codes, in-jokes inside in-jokes.f And at E.T.A. only 16s snapped towels, and only for a year or two, but they went at it with a
vengeance, towel-snapping, a brief flared genuflection to jock-stereotype, a stage where there's this primate-like passion for red-assed bonding in
steamy rooms. They were the age staring down the barrel not of Is anything true but of Am I true, of What am I, of What is this thing, and it made
them strange.
   Then 18's-B/C fence-sitter Duncan van Slack, the kid who carried a guitar around with himself everyplace but never played it, and refused all
late-night-sitting-around-someone's-room requests to play, and who was suspected of not being able to play the thing at all, and whose own Da
was supposedly a redoubted gene-sequencer in Savannah, poked his head and guitar's neck in the door and said to come quick and then withdrew
his head before anybody could ask what was up.
   'If you didn't have such a way with a launch-vector I wouldn't be sure you're ready to hear this, Postalscale.'
   'It occurs to me this is your boring man's true talent: the talent for ensnaring,' says the Viking. 'Flee while you can, kid.'
   Possalthwaite blew his nose in the crook of his elbow and left it there.
   Pemulis, who still used genuine catgut strings, zipped the two sticks he'd chosen into their Dunlop covers. He put an arch-support shoe up on the
bench by Postalweight's bottom, looking quickly right and left:
   'Todder, you can trust math.'
   Freer said 'You heard it here first.'
   Pemulis compulsively zipped and unzipped one of the covers. 'Take a breather, Keith. Todd, trust math. As in Matics, Math E. First-order
predicate logic. Never fail you. Quantities and their relation. Rates of change. The vital statistics of God or equivalent. When all else fails. When the
boulder's slid all the way back to the bottom. When the headless are blaming. When you do not know your way about. You can fall back and
regroup around math. Whose truth is deductive truth. Independent of sense or emotionality. The syllogism. The identity. Modus Tollens.
Transitivity. Heaven's theme song. The nightlight on life's dark wall, late at night. Heaven's recipe book. The hydrogen spiral. The methane,
ammonia, H2O. Nucleic acids. A and G, T and C. The creeping inevibatility. Caius is mortal. Math is not mortal. What it is is: listen: it's true.'
   'This from a man on academic probation for who knows the length.'
   Something involving Freer and a saline-moistened cattle-prod refused to quite mentally gel. There was still none of Tenuate's stomachless verve
or well-being, just a glittered hum in his head and sinuses that felt like wind-tunnels. Pemulis tended to be a mouth-breather. The Viking raised one
leg to fart toward Pemulis in a vaudevillian way, getting a laugh from Csikszentmihalyi and Rader, who'd mostly undressed and taken seats on the
bench opposite Pemulis and Postal Weight, towels hung unwinding in their hands, watching, and were only every once in a while and in a
halfhearted way pretending to look like they were getting ready to snap each other.
   'I'm not a math person, Dad says,' said Postal Weight. Again the nose made the words come out dot and bath and persod. Csikszentmihalyi
feinted a lunge and then really lunged and there was brief flurry of terrycloth.
   Pemulis unzipped the cover. 'The axiom. The lemma. Listen: "If two different sets of parametric equations represent the same curve J, but the
curve is traced in opposite directions in the two cases, then the two sets of equations produce values for a line integral over J that are negatives of
each other." Not "If thus-and-such." Not "unless a gladhand-ing commercial realtor from Boardman MN in $400 Banfi loafers changes his mind."
Always and ever. As in puts the am a priori. An honest lamp in the inkiest black, Tod-dleposter.'
    There were voices and running feet like some sort of ruckus. McKenna stuck his head in and looked wildly around and withdrew without saying
anything. Csikszentmihalyi went out after him. Freer and Rader both said What the fuck. Pemulis had only one button of his fly buttoned and was
pointing at the ceiling with a finger:
    '. . . Only that at times like this, when you're directionless in a dark wood, trust to the abstract deductive. When driven to your knees, kneel and
revere the double S. Leap like a knight of faith into the arms of Peano, Leibniz, Hubert, L'Hôpital. You will be lifted up. Fourier, Gauss, LaPlace,
Rickey. Borne up. Never let fall. Wiener, Reimann, Frege, Green.'
    Csikszentmihalyi came back in with Ortho Stice, their color high.
    Pemulis compulsively zips and unzips zippers, is the reason why he wears only button-fly pants and tennis shorts.
    Cs/yi said 'There is expression. You must immediately come.'
    Freer turned from the mirror, both hands on a comb. 'What the fuck's going on?'
    'John Wayne is insanely holding forth innermost thoughts for public ears.'
    'Never trust the father you can see,' Pemulis told Possalthwaite.
    Stice was already on his way back out and said over his shoulder, 'Troeltsch's got Wayne on the air and Wayne's lost his mind.'
    a. Like dry loamy clay, highly absorbent, used by some for traction on their grips, eschewed by others because it has a lot of aluminum silicates
and the Y.T.M.P.'s 'aluminum-causes-impotence' panic still weighs hard on some pubescent players' minds.
    b. A good many seniors' schedules have no last-period classes, or have Independent-Study stuff slated for last period, and when two of these
seniors -- e.g. Pemulis & Freer -- are scheduled for a P.M. challenge-match, they get to start at 1430h. instead of 1515h., and usually then finish
up early, which is a great perk, given that they'll get to hit both the weight room and the locker room at slack and empty times.
    c. An advantage of competitive mediocrity is you get to sit in the stands and get lots of sun on your feet and chest, because you're knocked out
of competition by like the second round. Hence grotesquely pale feet are sort of a perverse mark of competitive status, maybe like toothlessness in
hockey or something.
    d. Specially engineered to react very fast with the hydrolytic enzyme esterase and thus to be completely out of the tissues within 36 hrs.
    e. Q.v. Note 22 supra.
f. For example, during the first month of last summer's Euroclay junket, at some prearranged signal the male 16s would all hunch and hop around
brachiatishly with their knuckles just off the ground in a circle, hitting their chests and going 'Er ah ee oo ah,' over and over, until prorector N.
Hartigan finally lost his patience as they did it again in the line for Customs at L'Aéroport Orly and had hysterics so gruesome in someone that tall
that the practice stopped as mysteriously as it'd started.
315
     (whose theories of detection and interview are strongly informed by the b/w noir films Tine so enjoyed as a boy late at night on local broadcast
television, and misses)
316
     (and then some)
317
     Bolex H64, -32 and -16 models come with a turret that accepts three C-mount lenses, which gives the models a kind of multi-eyed, alien-facial
look.
318
     (though never unveiled)
319
     (which is actually complete horseshit, but goes unchallenged by the O.U.S. operatives, who are pretty savvy at choosing their heuristic battles)
320
     (given the guy's track record with ingestion)
321
     Picaresque pretty obviously referring to the comic-Surrealist tradition of Bay Area avant-gardeists like Peterson & Broughton, since Peterson's
Potted Psalm's mother-and-Death stuff and The Cage's cranial-imprisonment and disconnected-eyeball stuff are pretty obvious touchstones in a lot
of Himself's more parodic-slapstick productions.
    322
         17 NOV. Y.D.A.U.
    'Gracious me and mine,' Pemulis said, clutching the ankle of the leg he'd crossed to keep the foot from joggling.
    'Rusk and Charles and Mrs. Incandenza are with him now. Schtitt's been up to see him. Loach has done a thorough reflex-check. John Wayne's
going to be OK.'
    'Well thank heavens for that load off everyone's mind,' Pemulis said.
    It was Pemulis, deLint, Nwangi, and Watson in the Dean of Academic Affairs' Office. Mrs. Inc's ventilator hissed and something up in there
whirred a little. DeLint was behind the high desk, looking like a mean little boy. Nobody'd said if anybody higher up than deLint was going to show.
Pemulis didn't know if this was good or bad.
    'Let's make perfectly sure we got this in order and in your words.' Nwangi and Watson were window-dressing. This was A. deLint's show. His
face kind of came apart when he smiled. 'With no prior knowledge of anything untoward, you're pulled from the locker room and stand out in the
hall with several other students, which is your first knowledge anything's untoward with Wayne.'
    Pemulis figured none of the administrators had heard the thing; they always shut their soundproof doors at I435h.; Pemulis had no idea what
Wayne's said about anything, or Jim Troeltsch, who very prudently hasn't shown facial-feature one in their room since the apocalyptic broadcast.
It'd taken Pemulis about half the salivaless sprint up to B-204 to figure out what had happened and to find his pilfered Tenuates in the little
pecker's Sel-dane bottle. Pemulis sort of shuddered to imagine the impact of the 'drine on Wayne's cherry-red and virgin bloodstream. The slight
whir of his cortex working at full speed was masked by the hiss of the ventilator and the sound of whistles and play and Schtitt's megaphone
outside.
    'I'm in there suiting up waiting for Freer and doing a little B.B.-intervention on Pos-salthwaite who was in crisis and Zoltan and The Darkness
come like spasming in saying Troeltsch'd jury-rigged the Duke into candid sharing for the WETA broadcast.'
    'They said what, that Troeltsch had tricked Wayne into speaking candidly without awareness it's going out over WETA into all the rooms?'
    Pemulis realized the limpness of this, in like that anybody'd see that Wayne'd have to have been sitting right there with Troeltsch by the little
old-time gunmetal handheld mike at Lateral Alice Moore's curved desk. He'd already heard from Lateral Alice that it was more like Wayne had come
rattling in and shoved Troeltsch aside and grabbed the mike and started ranting while Troeltsch and Lateral Alice Moore had looked on aghastly;
and that Dave Harde, down doing some maintainance to L.A.M.'s deactivated third rail, had been so aghasted he'd pitched forward narcoleptically
and stayed like that with his face in the blue carpet and ass in the air for nearly an hour, and that Lateral Alice's own stress had brought on an
aggravation of her chronic cyanosis to the point where her whole face was still blue-tinged and between her knees when Pemulis had got to her.
    'This was more like a general sort of impression which I feel like I might have misbegotten from the agitation of the guys. Plus how completely
un-Wayneish Wayne sounded, like how could anybody ever have said that shit if they thought it wasn't just them and Troeltsch alone, much less
Wayne, who as we all know is pretty much reserve in motion.'
    DeLint's nostrils got that pale flare they got, Pemulis knew, when he smelled horseshit and knew you knew it. Pemulis knows deLint's been laying
for him ever since the incident with the P.W.T.A. guy who started to wobble and then rant down at P.W.T.A., which was a totally different type of
deal. The irony was that the Wayne-dosing had been a total accident and in no way Pemulis's deal, if anybody's Troeltsch's, but the cortex couldn't
nail down any way to get this across without admitting to possession of a 'drine, which given the shaky pharmaceutical ground since the Eschaton
and O.N.A.N.T.A. urologist would be tantamount to Clippertonizing himself. Nwangi showed almost blinding 3rd-World teeth but was saying
nothing. Watson's eyes had almost this nictitater of stupidity-film on them, less a dullness than a deadness, the dead porch light of nobody home at
chez Tex Watson. Pemulis saw the leaflet about Wayne and Mrs. I. and deviant division in the papers deLint held.
    'Which is in your words your first knowledge of untowardness with Wayne.'
    'My first is I get out there still trying to counsel the Postheimer and here on the speaker's Wayne doing what Keith observed may have been a
sort of imitation of Dr. Tavis.'
    It had been uncanny. It had made Stice look like a rank amateur. Wayne had told Troeltsch to pretend he was some adolescent girl: this was
adolescent Tavis asking her for a date; Pemulis shuddered; he couldn't exactly remember all the little mannerisms, which Wayne'd clearly gotten
locked down from Tavis always sitting next to him on the bus back from victories going at him nonstop, but in outline it was Chuckie Tavis coming
up to some Canadian cheerleader or something and telling her he was going to be completely open with her: he had a terrible fear of rejection; he
was telling her up-front now that tomorrow he was going to ask her out for a date and was begging her not openly to reject him if she didn't want
to go, to think up some plausible excuse -- though of course he said he realized that what he was saying would make that excuse hard to believe,
now that he's openly asked her to make up an excuse.
    'Whereupon the whole Academy hears Mr. Troeltsch prompt Wayne into making public castigations of his various peers and instructors.'
    'I've got to say it did seem like Troeltsch had kind of orchestrated things somehow, sir, was my impression.'
    'Referring to Corbett Thorp as a --' pretending to riffle through the papers so Pemulis'd have to see the 17-into-56 leaflet several times as it
came up in the riffle.
    'I believe the expression was "a palsied twit," ' Nwangi said to deLint.
    'Yes "palsied twit." And Francis Unwin quote "has the on-court look of a cornered rodent." And Disney R. Leith: the quote "sort of man you
always end up sitting next to at civic functions." Ms. Richardson-Levy-o'Byrne-Chawaf as chair of some sort of committee dealing with the topic of
the quote "Itty Bitty Titty." On Coach Schtitt, quote, seeming as if he'd been "denied some kind of vitally important moisture from birth hencefor-
ward." Our own Mr. Nwangi here being in rough quote if I've got it quote "the sort of fellow who'll be in a Chinese restaurant with you and won't
even share food or trade food." `
    'Meaning mean-spirited.' Nwangi threw his head back and beamed like he was blind. What was chilling was that in Wayne's scenario Tavis does
succeed, Wayne projects, in seducing the Canadian cheerleader or whatever, even when he's totally open on the date about the fact that he'd
deliberately told her he was afraid of rejection in the first place only as a strategy to make him seem to her different from other boys, more honest
and open, so that the scenario was that the honesty was so exhausting she'd basically just laid back exhausted and let him X her just to shut him
up. Except -- chillingly -- he hadn't shut up.
    '-- including some sort of imitation of Dr. Tavis carrying on a monologue during the act of sexual intercourse,' deLint said, trying to find it in the
sheaf. 'On Bernadette Long-ley: "Bernadette Longley looks like her hair grew her head instead of the other way around." On Mary Esther Thode: "a
face like a pancake." On the Academy's own late Founder and husband of the Dean of Ac.-Aff.: "so full of himself he could have shit limbs."
Unquote. On his own doubles partner Hal Incandenza: "by all appearances addicted to everything that is not tied down, cannot outrun him, and is
fittable in the mouth." `
    'I'm remembering the word as insertable.' Pemulis kicked himself, mentally. The pancake thing had been expanded to like fifteen seconds as
Wayne had sketched M. E. Thode's face as circular, burned, freckled, cratered, doughy, shiny, soggy, on and on. Plus somehow even more chilling
was that Pemulis knew from Inc that Wayne's pseudo-Tavis 'I-live-in-fear-of-rejection' ploy was actually in the top five or ten of the troubling
'Strategies' that Inc's brother Orin the punter called up to Hal about employing to X young married women.
    'Donni Stott has we're informed "skin like an attache case and is a compelling advertisement for sunscreen." I myself am, here I quote, quote "a
man who would not lend his own mother a quarter for a rubber tip for her crutch." `
    'Is the emerging point that this is going to impact my getting to go on the WhataBurger trip?'
    Nwangi crumpled and slapped his knee. His face literally looked like a very dark hatchet. Tex Watson reached down behind the console he was
slumped in his chair by and brought out Pemulis's special yachting cap and dangled it like something you want a dog to jump for. From someplace
under Nwangi's chair were brought out two pharmaceutical scales, several jeweller's loupes, the tow truck's supply of empty sterile Visine bottles,
and plus every bottle from Troeltsch's bedside table, which clearly Troeltsch had eaten some enormous wedge of putrid deal-cutting cheese.
    Pemulis tasted the metallic taste of a seriously anxious stomach. 'I request to see the Dean of Ac.-Aff. before any of this goes further.'
    'We have again Ms. Heath, apparently on someone's mind very much today, now said to be the sort of person who quote "cries at card tricks."
We have a Rik Dunkel who "could not find his own bottom with both hands and a nautical compass of exacting precision." We have a return
engagement with Ms. Heath, described as "dwelling always at the edge of some vast continent of menstrual hysteria." We have our own beloved
Tex, sitting right here, described as having "a tiny liquid-filled nubbin at the top of the spine" in lieu of higher cortex function.'
    'Aubs, no kidding: something pressing I have to interface about with Mrs. Inc. Tell her it concerns U.S.-Canadian relations.'
    Nwangi's laugh was high and had the slight teakettle-wheeze to it of the laughs of large black men the world over. 'She sends you her regards,
the Dean said to tell you.' He slapped his knee three times.
    DeLint looked a little less happy because he clearly didn't know what any of it was about and didn't like playing coded messenger, but he still
looked pretty happy: 'Michael Mathew Pemulis, the Academy's Dean of Academic Affairs said to tell you the administration's too naturally concerned
about the state of one of our two very finest current talents, who it's clear he's been unwittily dosed with an artificial stimulant prohibited by federal
statute, O.N.A.N.T.A. regulations, and the Enfield Tennis Academy Honor-Code Specs on Artificial Substances, to permit itself the satisfaction of
giving you the Dean's very best regards and her wish that quote "may the road rise up to meet you whitherever your future travels lie." ' DeLint
probed his ear. 'I think that was it in a nutshell.'
    Pemulis got very cool and brass-mask-faced. He was breathing very clearly through his nose, and the office air seemed mentholated. Everything
got very cool and formal inside and glycerine-clear. 'Aubs, before anything gets nailed in stone that we'll all I promise you and Mrs. Inc we'll all of
us regret --'
    DeLint said 'I was given to understand you can either finish out the term for credit or you can hit the trail with your little sailing cap full of
pockets on a stick like a bandanna to some other O.N.A.N.T.A. institution and see if they'll take a senior without any kind of positive reference,
which the sense I get is the administration says fat chance on any kind of reference.'
    Tex Watson said something about urine.
    Pemulis recrossed his leg. DeLint looked at Nwangi:
    'I believe the kid is speechless.'
    'I believe he has nothing to say.'
    'I don't believe it.'
    'And something about you're invited to shout whatever you threatened the administration to shout about from the highest hill you can find,
which pretty soon won't be this one.'
    Nwangi got out through laughter: 'And that the administrative office doorknobs have been rubberized and grounded, the administrative files all
recryptographilated, everyone's room's mirrors reanodized and sealed with Plastic Wood, Mrs. Inc said to tell you.'
    The little deck-of-cards riffle of the wings of the Shit Fairy, which he privately envisions as a kind of violet incubus with the Da's saggy frown.
Pemulis scratched very coolly next to his ear. 'And this affects the WhataBurger, my chances?'
DeLint told Pemulis he just fucking slayed him while Watson looked from face to face and Nwangi rocked and wheezed and slapped at his knee,
and Pemulis, close-mouthed and breathing with terrible ease, found their good humor almost infectious.
323
     Put out by the Mass Division of S.A.S., listing meetings of all but the very most lunatic-fringe-type 12-Step Programs in city, sub-, and exurbs, all
up and down both Shores, the Cape, and Nantucket.
324
     Hal's Pemulis-inspired trope for putting down the secret daily Bob H., which started as a wry dark mental joke and now within a week has
become the way Hal characterizes abstinence to himself, which any Boston AA would tell him isn't a very promising way to think about it at all, in
terms of self-pity.
325
     Except of course for a certain hardwired type of pornography- and onanistic sex-addict, which has given rise to a couple exceptionally icky Step-
based fellowships.
326
    (according to his sudoriferous and and agora-compulsive younger brother, M. Bain)
327
    Latin blunder for self-defense's se defendendo is sic, either a befogged muddling of a professional legal term, or a post-Freudian slip, or (least
likely) a very oblique and subtle jab at Gately from a Ewell intimate with the graveyard scene from Hamlet -- namely V.i. 9.
328
    Ketorolac tromethamine, a non-narcotic analgesic, little more than Motrin with ambition -- ®Syntex Labs.
329
    International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.
330
    Doxycycline hyclate, an I.V.-antibiotic -- ®Parke-Davis Pharmaceuticals.
331
    Oxycodone hydrochloride + acetaminophen, a Schedule C-III narcotic oral analgesic -- ®Du Pont Pharmaceuticals.
332
    Or possibly Babel.
333
    Boston AA slogan meaning trying to quit addictive Substance-use without working any kind of Recovery Program.
334
    E.T.S.V Advanced Placement Standardized Subject Tests, which Hal Incandenza's signed up to take in English and (Parisian) French.
a. Educational Testing Service Inc., Princeton NJ.
335
    The College of Basic Studies Bldg. on Commonwealth and Granby, approx. 3 clicks east-southeast of E.T.A.
336
    Montreal International Airport-D'Orval, Cartierville Airport being now restricted to intra-Québec flights only.
337
    (Which in fact she doesn't, but she had had perfume on the last time she wore the hulpil.)
338
    An R. Catholic church just off Brighton Center.
339
      Sic.
340
     Or a face writhing in involuntary disgust at Don G.'s own armlessness and hook, maybe.
341
     As in a combination of the First and Twelfth Steps, goes the AA joke: 'My Life Is Unmanageable and I'd Like to Share It With You.'
342
     Reference to January-February Y.D.A.U., when person or persons unknown went around coating selected toothbrushes of the Boys and Girls
16's with what was finally pinpointed as betel-nut extract, causing panic and internecine finger-pointing and resulting in serial oxidation-treatment
visits to Dr. E. Zegarelli, D.D.S., by half a dozen E.T.A.s until the brush-tamperings ceased as suddenly as they'd begun; and now nine months later
no one still has the slightest idea re perpetrator or point.
343
     Which runs not to Enfield-Brighton but to Roxbury and Mattapan, places where it is very bad nighttime joss indeed to be both white and
incapacitated.
344
     Q.v. note a to Note 12.
345
     Anexsia -- ®SmithKline Beecham Laboratories.
346
     Levo-Dromoran-- ®Roche Laboratories.
347
     Numorphan, kind of a watered-down Dilaudid -- ®Du Pont Pharmaceuticals.
348
     Perwin NX -- ® Bos well Medications Ltd., Canada -- which accounts for the C-III, because the Canadians are notoriously insane when it comes
to forecasting abuse-potential.
349
     A.k.a. Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride -- ®Roche, Inc. -- a low-grade Valiumish tranq.
350
     A C-III and sort of entry-level oral narcotic, the side-effects and inconsistent buzz of which often send abusers up the ladder to C-II compounds.
351
     A.k.a. hyoscyamine sulfate -- ®Schwarz Pharma Kremers Urban, Inc. -- an anti-spasmodic for anything from colitis to Irritable Bowel
Syndrome.
352
     A.k.a. methaqualone, now manufactured outside O.N.A.N. jurisdiction under the trade name Parestol.
353
     Later one-third of the rent-and-strip-luxury-apts. crew, and even later Gately's trusted colleague on some of his most disastrous and bottom-
hastening home-invasions, including that of one G. DuPlessis, which Kite ended up regretting exponentially more than Gately did, once the A.F.R.
got through with him.
354
     MDA, MDMA ('X'), MMDA-2 ('Love Boat'), MMDA-3a ('Eve'), DMMDA-2
('Starry Night'), etc.
355
     Long-Term Institution.
    356
        Sounding rather suspiciously like Professor H. Bloom's turgid studies of artistic influenza -- though it's unclear how either Flood- or dead-
ancestor discussions have any connection to S. Peterson's low-budget classic The Cage, which is mostly about a peripatetic eyeball rolling around,
other than the fact that J. O. Incandenza loved this film and stuck little snippets of it or references to it just about anywhere he could; maybe the
'disjunction' or 'disconnection' between the screen's film and Ph.D.'s scholastic discussion of art is part of the point.3
a. (Which of course assumes there's a point.)
357
     Though they did, just as in depictions of organized crime in popular entertainment, often change the cell-phones they used, to avoid potential
taps or Pen Registers -- Sorkin buying new units and #s, Gately more often borrowing student R.N.s' cellulars and then returning them after a few
days. One of Gately's biggest challenges in this career was remembering all the different fucking phone numbers and addresses of luxury-apts.-of-
the-week when he was strafed on Barn-Bams just about all the time.
358
     Cimetidine -- ®SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals -- 8oo-mg. spansules for generalized cranio-vascular woe (derived, kind of interestingly,
from the same ergot rye-mold as LSD).
359
     For the two maps Sorkin had to have eliminated altogether during this period, it's maybe worth observing that he eschewed both Towers and
instead used the thuggish ex-Québecer muscleboys DesMontes and Pointgravè, who had no real loyalties or membership in any community and
hired themselves out as enforcers for books and high-interest lenders all up and down both Shores. Gately did, as a coercive collector, demap one
person, but it was essentially an accident -- the debtor had been blond, and drinking Heinekens, and then when things got physical he'd squirted
Gately in the face with Mace, and a red curtain of rage had descended over Gately's sight, and when he'd come back to himself the debtor's head
was turned 180° around on his neck and had the little Mace can all the way up one nostril, and it was the most professionally horrified Gately had
ever been up until the thing with the suffocated Canadian P.I.T., which anyway occurred much later and when Gately was way more nonviolence-
prone.
360
     Purified pork insulin in a zinc suspension -- ®Lilly Pharmaceuticals.
361
     An elite private high school up near the Methuen salient.
362
     Surely skeet and vig, meaning debt and bookmaker's automatic percentage (usually 10% subtracted from winnings or added to skeet) are not
just metro Boston terms.
363
     A.k.a. Acetylcysteine-zo -- ®Bristol Laboratories -- a nebulizable prophylaxis against the post-traumatic buildup of abnormal, viscid, or
inspissated mucus.
364
     With the hard-ch sound distinctive of North Shore pronun. of words like Chicago and champagne.
365
     Known less sensitively among neuro-urology residents as 'Dizzy Dick Disorder' or sometimes just '3-D.'
366
     Knoll Laboratories' good old Dilaudid -- $666.00/g. wholesale and $5/mg. street at Y.W.-Q.M.D. valuations.
367
     A 'Phillips Screwdriver,' vodka and Milk of Magnesia, which Gately finds nauseous and privately refers to as a 'lowball.'
368
     (As opposed to self-confronting, presumably.)
369
     See Note 144 supra.
    370
        The 1.3:1-aspect-ratio rectangle scanned by electron beams in video imaging, now replaced by multi-interlace3 solid-field HD digital imaging.
a. Why Noreen Lace-Forché's seminal corporation's name was a kind of wry pun: 2:1 interlace was pre-HD television's term for breaking the picture
frame into two 262.5-line fields for standard 525-line raster-scanning. ... A very in-type joke designed to appeal to the same Big Four that Noreen
L.-F. was then wooing.
    371
        More like B.S. 1926, according to the Still Photo Archive at NNY City's Museum of Modern Art. Plus n.b. the print -- which Hal correctly
remembers Avril always loathing a -- long pre-dated J.O.I.'s ever picking up a camera.
a. Hence the relative queerness of its still being up on the HmH living room wall four years after Incandenza's felo de se -- it's not like anybody
asked her to keep the thing up.
372
     Whether in singles against him or doubles alongside, when Hal is on-court with Wayne he always gets the creepy feeling that Wayne has control
out there not just of his voluntary CNS but also of his heartrate and blood pressure, the diameter of his pupils, etc., which feeling is not only creepy
but distracting, adding to the tension of playing with Wayne.
373
     Winter Park FL facility for enmeshment-, codependency-, and compulsivity-related Issues.
374
     A.k.a. Lorazepam -- ®Wyeth-Aherst Labs -- a venerable anti-anxiety tranq, of which 25 mg./day is enough to anxiolytize a good-sized
Clydesdale.
375
     Probably meaning Doryx, Parke-Davis's doxycycline hyclate, the Cruise missile of gram-negative antibiotics.
376
     Nalaxone hydrochloride, the Exocet missile of narcotic antagonists -- ®DuPont Pharm. -- 2 ml./2Oml.-saline pre-filled syringes.
    377
        Metro Boston's third-hardest thing to street-cop after raw Vietnamese opium and the incredibly potent DMZ, Sunshine is pentazocine
hydrochloride and mefenamic acid3 -- ®Sanofi Winthrop, Canada, Inc. -- w/ trade-name Talwin-PX -- Day-Glo-yellow serum, 7ml./20ml.-saline
pre-filled syringes.
a. A non-narc analgesic marketed in the U.S. as Ponstel -- ®Parke-Davis -- mostly (oddly enough) for dysmenorrhea, sort of like nuclear-grade
Mydol.
378
     Talwin-NX -- ®Sanofi Winthrop U.S.

