      'My application's not bought,' I am telling them, calling into the darkness of the red cave that opens out before closed eyes. 'I
am not just a boy who plays tennis. I have an intricate history. Experiences and feelings. I'm complex.
      'I read,' I say. 'I study and read. I bet I've read everything you've read. Don't think I haven't. I consume libraries. I wear out
spines and ROM-drives. I do things like get in a taxi and say, "The library, and step on it." My instincts concerning syntax and
mechanics are better than your own, I can tell, with due respect.
      'But it transcends the mechanics. I'm not a machine. I feel and believe. I have opinions. Some of them are interesting. I could,
if you'd let me, talk and talk. Let's talk about anything. I believe the influence of Kierkegaard on Camus is underestimated. I
believe Dennis Gabor may very well have been the Antichrist. I believe Hobbes is just Rousseau in a dark mirror. I believe, with
Hegel, that transcendence is absorption. I could interface you guys right under the table,' I say. 'I'm not just a creãtus,
manufactured, conditioned, bred for a function.'
      I open my eyes. 'Please don't think I don't care.'
      I look out. Directed my way is horror. I rise from the chair. I see jowls sagging, eyebrows high on trembling foreheads,
cheeks bright-white. The chair recedes below me.
      'Sweet mother of Christ,' the Director says.
      T'm fine,' I tell them, standing. From the yellow Dean's expression, there's a brutal wind blowing from my direction.
Academics' face has gone instantly old. Eight eyes have become blank discs that stare at whatever they see.
      'Good God,' whispers Athletics.
      'Please don't worry,' I say. 'I can explain.' I soothe the air with a casual hand.
      Both my arms are pinioned from behind by the Director of Comp., who wrestles me roughly down, on me with all his weight.
I taste floor.
      'What's wrong?'
      I say 'Nothing is wrong.'
     'It's all right! I'm here!' the Director is calling into my ear.
     'Get help!' cries a Dean.
     My forehead is pressed into parquet I never knew could be so cold. I am arrested. I try to be perceived as limp and pliable.
My face is mashed flat; Comp.'s weight makes it hard to breathe.
     'Try to listen,' I say very slowly, muffled by the floor.
     'What in God's name are those . . .,' one Dean cries shrilly, '. . . those sounds?'
     There are clicks of a phone console's buttons, shoes' heels moving, pivoting, a sheaf of flimsy pages falling.
     'God!'
     'Help!'
     The door's base opens at the left periphery: a wedge of halogen hall-light, white sneakers and a scuffed Nunn Bush. 'Let him
up!' That's deLint.
     'There is nothing wrong,' I say slowly to the floor. Tm in here.'
     I'm raised by the crutches of my underarms, shaken toward what he must see as calm by a purple-faced Director: 'Get a grip,
son!'
     DeLint at the big man's arm: 'Stop it!'
     'I am not what you see and hear.'
     Distant sirens. A crude half nelson. Forms at the door. A young Hispanic woman holds her palm against her mouth, looking.
     'I'm not,' I say.
     You have to love old-fashioned men's rooms: the citrus scent of deodorant disks in the long porcelain trough; the stalls with
wooden doors in frames of cool marble; these thin sinks in rows, basins supported by rickety alphabets of exposed plumbing;
mirrors over metal shelves; behind all the voices the slight sound of a ceaseless trickle, inflated by echo against wet porcelain and
a cold tile floor whose mosaic pattern looks almost Islamic at this close range.
     The disorder I've caused revolves all around. I've been half-dragged, still pinioned, through a loose mob of Administrative
people by the Comp. Director -- who appears to have thought variously that I am having a seizure (prying open my mouth to
check for a throat clear of tongue), that I am somehow choking (a textbook Heimlich that left me whooping), that I am
psychotically out of control (various postures and grips designed to transfer that control to him) -- while about us roil deLint,
trying to restrain the Director's restraint of me, the varsity tennis coach restraining deLint, my mother's half-brother speaking in
rapid combinations of polysyllables to the trio of Deans, who variously gasp, wring hands, loosen neckties, waggle digits in C.T.'s
face, and make pases with sheafs of now-pretty-clearly-superfluous application forms.
     I am rolled over supine on the geometric tile. I am concentrating docilely on the question why U.S. restrooms always appear
to us as infirmaries for public distress, the place to regain control. My head is cradled in a knelt Director's lap, which is soft, my
face being swabbed with dusty-brown institutional paper towels he received from some hand out of the crowd overhead, staring
with all the blankness I can summon into his jowls' small pocks, worst at the blurred jaw-line, of scarring from long-ago acne.
Uncle Charles, a truly unparalleled slinger of shit, is laying down an enfilade of same, trying to mollify men who seem way more
in need of a good brow-mopping than I.
     'He's fine,' he keeps saying. 'Look at him, calm as can be, lying there.'
     'You didn't see what happened in there,' a hunched Dean responds through a face webbed with fingers.
     'Excited, is all he gets, sometimes, an excitable kid, impressed with --'
     'But the sounds he made.'
     'Undescribable.'
     'Like an animal.'
     'Subanimalistic noises and sounds.'
     'Nor let's not forget the gestures.'
     'Have you ever gotten help for this boy Dr. Tavis?'
     'Like some sort of animal with something in its mouth.'
     'This boy is damaged.'
     'Like a stick of butter being hit with a mallet.'
     'A writhing animal with a knife in its eye.'
     'What were you possibly about, trying to enroll this --'
     'And his arms.'
     'You didn't see it, Tavis. His arms were --'
     'Flailing. This sort of awful reaching drumming wriggle. Waggling,' the group looking briefly at someone outside my sight
trying to demonstrate something.
     'Like a time-lapse, a flutter of some sort of awful ... growth.'
     'Sounded most of all like a drowning goat. A goat, drowning in something viscous.'
     'This strangled series of bleats and --'
     'Yes they waggled.'
     'So suddenly a bit of excited waggling's a crime, now?'
     'You, sir, are in trouble. You are in trouble.'
     'His face. As if he was strangling. Burning. I believe I've seen a vision of hell.'
     'He has some trouble communicating, he's communicatively challenged, no one's denying that.'
     'The boy needs care.'
     'Instead of caring for the boy you send him here to enroll, compete?'
     'Hal?'
     'You have not in your most dreadful fantasies dreamt of the amount of trouble you have bought yourself, Dr. so-called
Headmaster, educator.'
     '. . . were given to understand this was all just a formality. You took him aback, is all. Shy --'
     'And you, White. You sought to recruit him!'
     '-- and terribly impressed and excited, in there, without us, his support system, whom you asked to leave, which if you'd --'
     'I'd only seen him play. On court he's gorgeous. Possibly a genius. We had no idea. The brother's in the bloody NFL for God's
sake. Here's a top player, we thought, with Southwest roots. His stats were off the chart. We watched him through the whole
WhataBurger last fall. Not a waggle or a noise. We were watching ballet out there, a mate remarked, after.'
     'Damn right you were watching ballet out there, White. This boy is a balletic athlete, a player.'
     'Some kind of athletic savant then. Balletic compensation for deep problems which you sir choose to disguise by muzzling the
boy in there.' An expensive pair of Brazilian espadrilles goes by on the left and enters a stall, and the espadrilles come around and
face me. The urinal trickles behind the voices' small echoes.
     '-- haps we'll just be on our way,' C.T. is saying.
     'The integrity of my sleep has been forever compromised, sir.'
     '-- think you could pass off a damaged applicant, fabricate credentials and shunt him through a kangaroo-interview and inject
him into all the rigors of college life?'
     'Hal here functions, you ass. Given a supportive situation. He's fine when he's by himself. Yes he has some trouble with
excitability in conversation. Did you once hear him try to deny that?'
     'We witnessed something only marginally mammalian in there, sir.'
     'Like hell. Have a look. How's the excitable little guy doing down there, Aubrey, does it look to you?'
     'You, sir, are quite possibly ill. This affair is not concluded.'
     'What ambulance? Don't you guys listen? I'm telling you there's --'
     'Hal? Hal?'
     'Dope him up, seek to act as his mouthpiece, muzzling, and now he lies there catatonic, staring.'
     The crackle of deLint's knees. 'Hal?'
     '-- inflate this publicly in any distorted way. The Academy has distinguished alumni, litigators at counsel. Hal here is
provably competent. Credentials out the bazoo, Bill. The boy reads like a vacuum. Digests things.'
     I simply lie there, listening, smelling the paper towel, watching an es-padrille pivot.
     'There's more to life than sitting there interfacing, it might be a newsflash to you.'
     And who could not love that special and leonine roar of a public toilet?