     Enfield MA is one of the stranger little facts that make up the idea that is metro Boston, because it is a township composed
almost entirely of medical, corporate, and spiritual facilities. A kind of arm-shape extending north from Commonwealth Avenue
and separating Brighton into Upper and Lower, its elbow nudging East Newton's ribs and its fist sunk into Allston, Enfield's broad
municipal tax-base includes St. Elizabeth's Hospital, Franciscan Children's Hospital, The Universal Bleacher Co., the Provident
Nursing Home, Shuco-Mist Medical Pressure Systems Inc., the Enfield Marine Public Health Hospital Complex, the Svelte Nail
Co., half the metro Boston turbine and generating stations of Sunstrand Power and Light (the part that gets taxed is in incorporated
Allston), corporate headquarters for 'The ATHSCME Family of Air-Displacement Effectuators' (meaning they make really big
fans), the Enfield Tennis Academy, St. John of God Hospital, Hanneman Orthopedic Hospital, the Leisure Time Ice Company, a
Dicalced monastery, the combined St. John's Seminary and offices for the RCC's Boston Archdiocese (partly in Upper Brighton;
neither half taxed), convent headquarters of The Sisters for Africa, the National Cranio-Facial Pain Foundation, the Dr. George
Roebling Runyon Memorial Institute for Po-diatric Research, regional shiny-truck, land-barge, and catapult facilities for the
O.N.A.N.-subsidized Empire Waste Displacement Co. (what the Qué-becois call les trebuchets noirs, spectacular block-long
catapults that make a sound like a giant stamping foot as they fling great twine-bundled waste-vehicles into the subannular regions
of the Great Concavity at a parabolic altitude exceeding 5 km.; the devices' slings are of alloy-belted elastic and their huge cupped
vehicle-receptacles like catcher's mitts from hell, a half dozen or so of the catapults in this like blimp-hangarish thing with a selec-
tively slide-backable roof, taking up a good six square blocks of Enfield's brachiform incursion into the Allston Spur, occasional
school tours tolerated but not encouraged), and so on. W/ the whole flexed Enfield limb sleeved in a perimeter layer of light
residential and mercantile properties. The Enfield Tennis Academy occupies probably now the nicest site in En-field, some ten
years after balding and shaving flat the top of the big abrupt hill that constitutes a kind of raised cyst on the township's elbow, the
better part of 75 hectares of broad lawns and cloverleafing paths and topologically cutting-edge erections, 32 asphalt tennis courts
and sixteen Har-Tru composition tennis courts and extensive underground maintenance and storage and athletic-training facilities
and briers and calliopsis and pines mixed artfully in on the inclines with deciduous trees, the E.T.A. hilltop overlooking on one
side, east, historic Commonwealth Avenue's acclivated migration out of the squalor of Lower Brighton -- liquor stores and
Laundromats and bars and palisades of somber and guano-dappled tenement facades, the huge and brooding Brighton Project
high-rises with three-story-high orange I.D.-numerals on the sides, plus liquor stores, and pale men in leather and whole gangs of
pale children in leather on the corners and Greek-owned pizza places with yellow walls and dirty corner markets owned by
Orientals who try like heck to keep their sidewalks clean but can t, even with hoses, plus the quarter-hourly trundle and ding of the
Green Line train's labor up the Ave.'s long rise to Boston College -- into the spiky elegance of B.C. and the broad gentrification
of Newton out to the west, where the haze-haloed Boston sun drops behind the last node in the four-km. sine wave that is
collectively called the historic April Marathon's 'Heartbreak Hill,' the sun always setting fifteen minutes to the nanosecond after
deLint turns on the courts' high-tower lights. To I think it must be the southwest, E.T.A. overlooks the steely gray tangle of
Sunstrand's transformers and high-voltage grids and coaxial chokers strung with beads of ceramic insulators, with not one
Sunstrand smokestack anywhere in sight but a monstrous mega-ohm insulator-cluster at the terminus of a string of signs trailing in
from the northeast, each sign talking with many 0's about how many annular-generated amps are waiting underground for anyone
who digs or in any way dicks around, with hair-raising nonverbal stick-figure symbols of somebody with a shovel going up like a
Kleenex in the fireplace. There are smokestacks in the visual background slightly south of Sunstrand, though, from the E.W.D.
hangars, each stack with a monstrous ATHSCME 2100-Series A.D.E. (fan) bolted behind it and blowing due north with an
insistent high-pitched fury that is somehow soothing, aurally, at E.T.A.'s distance and height. From both the north and northeast
tree-lines E.T.A. looks down its hill's steepest, best-planted decline into the complexly decaying grounds of Enfield Marine.