     Under a streetlamp on Faneuil St. off W. Beacon, Randy Lenz shares a vulnerable personal thing and tilts his head back to
show Bruce Green where his septum used to be.
     Randy Lenz reguiles Bruce Green about certain real-estate cults in S. Cal. and the West Coast. Of Delawareans that still
believed Virtual-Reality pornography even though it'd been found to cause bleeding from the eye-corners and real-world
permanent impotence was still the key to Shrangi-la and believed that some sort of perfect piece of digito-holographic porn was
circulating somewhere in the form of a bootleg Write-Protect-notched software diskette and devoted their cultic lives to snuffling
around trying to get hold of the virtual kamasupra diskette and getting together in dim Wilmington-area venues and talking very
obliquely about rumors of where and just what the software was and how their snufflings for it were going, and watching Virtual
fuckfilms and mopping the corner of their eyes, etc. Or of something called Stelliform Cultism that Bruce Green isn't even near
ready to hear about, Lenz opines. Or like e.g. of a suicidal Nuck cult of Nucks that worshipped a form of Russian Roulette that
involved jumping in front of trains and seeing which Nuck could come the closest to the train's front without getting demapped.
     What sounds like Lenz chewing gum is really Lenz trying to talk and grind his teeth together at the same time.
     Lenz recalls orally that his stepfather's blue-vested gut had preceded the conductor into rooms by several seconds, fob glinting
above the watch-pocket's sinister slit. How Lenz's mother back in Fall River had made it a point of utilizing Greyhound for
voyages and sojourns, basically to piss her stephusband off.
     Lenz discusses how a serious disadvantage to dealing Bing retail is the way customers'll show up pounding on your door at
0300 sporting lint in the terms of resources and putting their arms around your shins and ankles and begging for just a half-gram
or tenth of a gram and offering to give Lenz their kids, like Lenz wants to fucking deal with anybody's kids, which these scenes
were always constant drags on his spirits.
     Green, who's hoovered his share, says cocaine always seemed like it grabbed you by the throat and just didn't let go, and he
could relate to why the Boston AAs call Bing the 'Express Elevator To AA.'
     In a dumpster-lined easement between Faneuil St. and Brighton Ave., Brighton, right after Green almost steps in what he's
pretty sure is human vomit, Lenz proves logically why it's all too likely that Ennet House resident Geoffrey D. is a closet poofta.
     Lenz reports how he's been approached in the past to male-model and act, but that the male-model and acting profession is
pretty much crawling with your closet pooftas, and it's no kind of work for a man that's confronted the ins and outs of his own
character.
     Lenz speculates openly on how there are purportaged to be whole packs and herds of feral animals operating in locust-like
fashion in the rhythmic lushness of parts of the Great Concavity to the due northeast, descended reputedly from domestic pets and
abandoned during the relocational transition to an O.N.A.N.ite map, and how teams of pro researchers and amateur explorers and
intrepid hearts and cultists have ventured northeast of Checkpoints along the Lucited ATHSCMulated walls and never returned,
vanishing in toto from the short-wave E.M. bands, as in like dropping off the radar.
     Green turns out to have no conceptions or views on the issues of fauna of the Concavity at all. He literally says he's never
given it one thought one way or the other.
     Whole NNE cults and stelliform subcults Lenz reports as existing around belief systems about the metaphysics of the
Concavity and annular fusion and B.S.-1950s-B-cartridge-type-radiation-affected fauna and overfertiliza-tion and verdant forests
with periodic oasises of purportaged desert and whatever east of the former Montpelier VT area of where the annulated Shawshine
River feeds the Charles and tints it the exact same tint of blue as the blue on boxes of Hefty SteelSaks and the ideas of ravacious
herds of feral domesticated housepets and oversized insects not only taking over the abandoned homes of relocated Americans but
actually setting up house and keeping them in model repair and impressive equity, allegedly, and the idea of infants the size of
prehistoric beasts roaming the overfertilized east Concavity quadrants, leaving enormous scat-piles and keening for the abortive
parents who'd left or lost them in the general geopolitical shuffle of mass migration and really fast packing, or, as some of your
more Limbaugh-era-type cultists sharingly believe, originating from abortions hastily disposed of in barrels in ditches that got
breached and mixed ghastly contents with other barrels that reanimated the abortive fed and brought them to a kind of repelsive
oversized B-cartridge life thundering around due north of where yrstruly and Green strolled through the urban grid. Of one local
underground stelliform offshoot from the Bob Hope-worshipping Rastafarians who smoked enormous doobsters and wove their
negroid hair into clusters of wet cigars like the Rastafarians but instead of Rastafarians these post-Rastas worshipped the Infant
and every New Year donned tie-dyed parkas and cardboard snowshoes and ventured northward, trailing smoke, past the walls and
fans of Checkpoint Pongo into the former areas of VT and NH, seeking The Infant they called it, as if there were only One, and
toting paraphernalia for performing a cultish ritual referred to in oblique tones only as Propitiating The Infant, whole posses of
these stelliform pot-head reggae-swaying Infant-cultists disappearing forever off the human race's radar every winter, never heard
or smelled again, regarded by fellow cultists as martyrs and/or lambs, possibly too addled by blimp-sized doobsters to find their
way back out of the Concavity and freezing to death, or en-swarmed by herds of feral pets, or shot by property-value-conscious
insects, or ... (face plum-colored, finally breathing) worse.
     Lenz shudders just at the thought of the raging Powerlessness he'd feel, he shares, lost and disorientated, wandering in circles
in blinding white frozen points due north of all domesticated men, forget the time not even knowing what fucking date it was, his
breath an ice-beard, with just his tinder and wits and character to live by, armed just with a Browning blade.
     Green opines that if Boston AA is a cult that like brainwashes you, he guesses he'd got himself to the point where his brain
needed a good brisk washing, which Lenz knows is not an original view, being exactly what big blockheaded Don Gately repeats
about once a diem.