     Joelle used to like to get really high and then clean. Now she was finding she just liked to clean. She dusted the top of the
fiberboard dresser she and Nell Gunther shared. She dusted the oval top of the dresser's mirror's frame and cleaned off the mirror
as best she could. She was using Kleenex and stale water from a glass by Kate Gompert's bed. She felt oddly averse to putting on
socks and clogs and going down to the kitchen for real cleaning supplies. She could hear the noise of all the post-meeting
nighttime residents and visitors and applicants down there. She could feel their voices in the floor. When the dental nightmare tore
her upright awake her mouth was open to scream out, but the scream was Nell G. down in the living room, whose laugh always
sounds like she's being eviscerated. Nell preempted Joelle's own scream. Then Joelle cleaned. Cleaning is maybe a form of
meditation for addicts too new in recovery to sit still. The 5-Woman's scarred wood floor had so much grit all over she could
sweep a pile of grit together with just an unappliquéd bumper sticker she'd won at B.Y.P. Then she could use damp Kleenex to get
up most of the pile. She had only Kate G.'s little bedside lamp on, and she wasn't listening to any YYY tapes, out of consideration
for Charlotte Treat, who was unwell and missed her Saturday Night Lively Mtng. on Pat's OK and was now asleep, wearing a
sleep mask but not her foam earplugs. Expandable foam earplugs were issued to every new Ennet resident, for reasons the Staff
said would clarify for them real quick, but Joelle hated to wear them -- they shut out exterior noise, but they made your head's
pulse audible, and your breath sounded like someone in a space suit -- and Charlotte Treat, Kate Gompert, April Cortelyu, and
the former Amy Johnson had all felt the same way. April said the foam plugs made her brain itch.
     It had started with Orin Incandenza, the cleaning. When relations were strained, or she was seized with anxiety at the
seriousness and possible im-permanence of the thing in the Back Bay's co-op, the getting high and cleaning became an important
exercise, like creative visualization, a preview of the discipline and order with which she could survive alone if it came to that.
She would get high and visualize herself solo in a dazzlingly clean space, every surface twinkling, every possession in place. She
saw herself being able to pick, say, dropped popcorn up off the rug and ingest it with total confidence. An aura of steely
independence surrounded her when she cleaned the co-op, even with the little whimpers and anxious moans that exited her
writhing mouth when she cleaned high. The place had been provided nearly gratis by Jim, who said so little to Joelle on their first
several meetings that Orin kept having to reassure her that it wasn't disapproval -- Himself was missing the part of the human
brain that allowed for being aware enough of other people to disapprove of them, Orin had said -- or dislike. It was just how The
Mad Stork was. Orin had referred to Jim as 'Himself or 'The Mad Stork' -- family nicknames, both of which gave Joelle the
creeps even then.
     It'd been Orin who introduced her to his father's films. The Work was then so obscure not even local students of serious film
knew the name. The reason Jim kept forming his own distribution companies was to ensure distribution. He didn't become
notorious until after Joelle'd met him. By then she was closer to Jim than Orin had ever been, part of which caused part of the
strains that kept the brownstone co-op so terribly clean.
     She'd barely thought consciously of any Incandenzas for four years before Don Gately, who for some reason kept bringing
them bubbling up to mind. They were the second-saddest family Joelle'd ever seen. Orin felt Jim disliked him to the precise extent
that Jim was even aware of him. Orin had spoken about his family at length, usually at night. On how no amount of punting
success could erase the psychic stain of basic fatherly dislike, failure to be seen or acknowledged. Orin'd had no idea how banal
and average his same-sex-parent-issues were; he'd felt they were some hideous exceptional thing. Joelle'd known her mother didn't
much like her from the first time her own personal Daddy'd told her he'd rather take Pokie to the pictures alone. Much of the stuff
Orin said about his family was dull, gone stale from years of never daring to say it. He credited Joelle with some strange
generosity for not screaming and fleeing the room when he revealed the banal stuff. Pokie had been Joelle's family nickname,
though her mother'd never called her anything but Joelle. The Orin she knew first felt his mother was the family's pulse and
center, a ray of light incarnate, with enough depth of love and open maternal concern to almost make up for a father who barely
existed, parentally. Jim's internal life was to Orin a black hole, Orin said, his father's face any room's fifth wall. Joelle had
struggled to stay awake and attentive, listening, letting Orin get the stale stuff out. Orin had no idea what his father thought or felt
about anything. He thought Jim wore the opaque blank facial expression his mother in French sometimes jokingly called Le
Masque. The man was so blankly and irretrievably hidden that Orin said he'd come to see him as like autistic, almost catatonic.
Jim opened himself only to the mother. They all did, he said. She was there for them all, psychically. She was the family's light
and pulse and the center that held tight. Joelle could yawn in bed without looking like she was yawning. The children's name for
their mother was 'the Moms.' As if there were more than one of her. His younger brother was a hopeless retard, Orin had said.
Orin recalled the Moms used to tell him she loved him about a hundred times a day. It nearly made up for Himself's blank stare.
Orin's basic childhood memory of Jim had been of an expressionless stare from a great height. His mother had been really tall,
too, for a girl. He'd said he'd found it secretly odd that none of the brothers were taller. His retarded brother was stunted to about
the size of a fire hydrant, Orin reported. Joelle cleaned behind the filthy room's radiator as far as she could reach, being careful not
to touch the radiator. Orin described his childhood's mother as his emotional sun. Joelle remembered her own personal Daddy's
Uncle T.S. talking about how her own personal Daddy'd thought his own Momma 'Hung the God Damn Moon,' he'd said. The
radiators on Ennet House's female side stayed on at all times, 24/7/365. At first Joelle had thought Mrs. Avril Incandenza's high-
watt maternal love had maybe damaged Orin by bringing into sharper relief Jim's remote self-absorption, which would have
looked, by comparison, like neglect or dislike. That it had maybe made Orin too emotionally dependent on his mother -- why else
would he have been so traumatized when a younger brother had suddenly appeared, specially challenged from birth and in need of
even more maternal attention than Orin? Orin, late one night on the co-op's futon, recalled to Joelle his skulking in and dragging a
wastebasket over and inverting it next to his infant brother's special crib, holding a heavy box of Quaker Oats high above his head,
preparing to brain the needy infant. Joelle had gotten an A- in Developmental Psych, the semester before. And also dependent
psychologically, Orin, it seemed, or even metaphysically -- Orin said he'd grown up, first in a regular house in Weston and then at
the Academy in Enfield, grown up dividing the human world into those who were open, readable, trustworthy, v. those so closed
and hidden that you had no clue what they thought of you but could pretty damn well imagine it couldn't be anything all that
marvelous or else why hide it? Orin had recounted that he'd started to see himself getting closed and blank and hidden like that, as
a tennis player, toward the end of his junior career, despite all the Moms's frantic attempts to keep him from hiddenness. Joelle
had thought of B.U.'s Nickerson Field's 30,000 voices' openly roared endorsement, the sound rising with the punt to a kind of
amniotic pulse of pure positive noise. Versus tennis's staid and reserved applause. It had all been so easy to figure and see, then,
listening, loving Orin and feeling for him, poor little rich and prodigious boy -- all this was before she came to know Jim and the
Work.
     Joelle scrubbed at the discolored square of fingerprints around the light-switch until the wet Kleenex disintegrated into
greebles.
     Never trust a man on the subject of his own parents. As tall and basso as a man might be on the outside, he nevertheless sees
his parents from the perspective of a tiny child, still, and will always. And the unhappier his childhood was, the more arrested will
be his perspective on it. She's learned this through sheer experience.
     Greebles had been her own mother's word for the little bits of sleepy goo you got in your eyes' corners. Her own personal
Daddy called them 'eye-boogers' and used to get them out for her with the twisted corner of his hankie.
     Though it's not as if you could trust parents on the subject of their memory of their children either.
     The cheap glass shade over the ceiling's light was black with interior grime and dead bugs. Some of the bugs looked like they
might have been from long-extinct species. The loose grime alone filled half an empty Carefree box. The more stubborn crud
would take a scouring pad and ammonia. Joelle put the shade aside for until she'd shot down to the kitchen to toss out different
boxes of crud and wet Kleenex and grab some serious Chore-type supplies from under the sink.
     Orin had said she was the third-neatnikest person he knew after his Moms and a former player he'd played with with
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, a dual diagnosis with which the U.H.I.D. membership was rife. But at the time the import had
missed her. At that time it had never occurred to her that Orin's pull toward her could have had anything either pro or con to do
with his mother. Her biggest worry was that Orin was pulled only by what she looked like, which her personal Daddy'd warned
her the sweetest syrup draws the nastiest flies, so to watch out.
     Orin hadn't been anything like her own personal Daddy. When Orin was out of the room it had never seemed like a relief.
When she was home, her own Daddy never seemed to be out of the room for more than a few seconds. Her mother said she hardly
even tried to talk to him when his Pokie was home. He kind of trailed her around from room to room, kind of pathetically, talking
batons and low-pH chemistry. It was like when she exhaled he inhaled and vice versa. He was all through the house. He was real
present at all times. His presence penetrated a room and outlasted him there. Orin's absence, whether for class or practice, emptied
the co-op out. The place seemed vacuumed and buffed sterile before the cleaning even started, when he went. She didn't feel
lonely in the place without him, but she did feel alone, what alone was going to feel like, and she, no one's fool,305295 was
erecting fortifications real early into it.
     It was Orin, of course, who'd introduced them. He'd had this stubborn idea that Himself would want to use her. In the Work.
She was too pretty for somebody not to want to arrange, capture. Better Himself than some weak-chinned academic. Joelle'd
protested the whole idea. She had a brainy girl's discomfort about her own beauty and its effect on folks, a caution intensified by
the repeated warnings of her personal Daddy. Even more to the immediate point, her filmic interests lay behind the lens. She'd do
the capturing thank you very much. She wanted to make things, not appear in them. She had a student filmmaker's vague disdain
for actors. Worst, Orin's idea's real project was developmentally obvious: he thought he could somehow get to his father through
her. That he pictured himself having weighty, steeple-fingered conversations with the man, Joelle's appearance and performance
the subjects. A three-way bond. It made her real uneasy. She theorized that Orin unconsciously wished her to mediate between
himself and 'Himself,' just as it sounded like his mother had. She was uneasy about the excited way Orin predicted that his father
wouldn't be able to ''resist using' her. She was extra uneasy about how Orin referred to his father as 'Himself.' It seemed painfully
blatant, developmental-arrest-wise. Plus she felt -- only a little less than she made it sound, on the futon at night, protesting --
she'd felt uneasy at the prospect of any sort of connection with the man who had hurt Orin so, a man so monstrously tall and cold
and remotely hidden. Joelle heard a howl and a crash from the kitchen, followed by McDade's tubercular laugh. Twice Charlotte
Treat sat up in sleep, glistening with fever, and said in a flat dead voice something that sounded for all the world like 'Trances in
which she did not breathe,' and then fell back, out. Joelle was trying to pin down a queer rancid-cinnamon smell that came from
the back of a closet stuffed with luggage. It was especially hard to clean when you weren't supposed to be allowed to touch any
other resident's stuff.
     She might have known from the Work. The man's Work was amateurish, she'd seen, when Orin had had his brother -- the
unretarded one -- lend them some of The Mad Stork's Read-Only copies. Was amateurish the right word? More like the work of a
brilliant optician and technician who was an amateur at any kind of real communication. Technically gorgeous, the Work, with
lighting and angles planned out to the frame. But oddly hollow, empty, no sense of dramatic towardness -- no narrative
movement toward a real story; no emotional movement toward an audience. Like conversing with a prisoner through that plastic
screen using phones, the upperclassman Molly Notkin had said of Incandenza's early oeuvre. Joelle thought them more like a very
smart person conversing with himself. She thought of the significance of the moniker 'Himself.' Cold. Pre-Nuptial Agreement of
Heaven and Hell -- mordant, sophisticated, campy, hip, cynical, technically mind-bending; but cold, amateurish, hidden: no risk
of empathy with the Job-like protagonist, whom she felt like the audience was induced to regard like somebody sitting atop a
dunk-tank. The lampoons of 'inverted' genres: archly funny and sometimes insightful but with something provisional about them,
like the finger-exercises of someone promising who refused to really sit down and play something to test that promise. Even as an
under-grad Joelle'd been convinced that parodists were no better than camp-followers in ironic masks, satires usually the work of
people with nothing new themselves to say.306296 'The Medusa v. the Odalisque' -- cold, allusive, inbent, hostile: the only
feeling for the audience one of contempt, the meta-audience in the film's theater presented as objects long before they turn to blind
stone.
     But there had been flashes of something else. Even in the early oeuvre, before Himself made the leap to narratively
anticonfluential but unironic melodrama she helped prolong the arc of, where he dropped the technical fireworks and tried to make
characters move, however inconclusively, and showed courage, abandoned everything he did well and willingly took the risk of
appearing amateurish (which he had). But even in the early Work -- flashes of something. Very hidden and quick. Almost furtive.
She noticed them only when alone, watching, without Orin and his rheostat's dimmer, the living room's lights up high like she
liked them, liked to see herself and everything else in the room with the viewer -- Orin liked to sit in the dark and enter what he
watched, his jaw slackening, a child raised on multichannel cable TV. But Joelle began -- on repeated viewing whose original
purpose was to study how the man had blocked out scenes, for an Advanced Storyboard course she went the extra click in -- she
began to see little flashes of something. The M v. O.'s three quick cuts to the sides of the gorgeous combatants' faces, twisted past
recognition with some kind of torment. Each cut to a flash of pained face had followed the crash of a petrified spectator toppling
over in her chair. Three split-seconds, no more, of glimpses of facial pain. And not pain at wounds -- they never touched each
other, whirling with mirrors and blades; the defenses of both were impenetrable. More like as if what their beauty was doing to
those drawn to watch it ate them alive, up there on stage, the flashes seemed to suggest. But just three flashes, each almost
subliminally quick. Accidents? But not one shot or cut in the whole queer cold film was accidental -- the thing was clearly s-
boarded frame by frame. Must have taken hundreds of hours. Astounding technical anality. Joelle kept trying to Pause the
cartridge on the flashes of facial torment, but these were the early days of InterLace cartridges, and the Pause still distorted the
screen just enough to keep her from seeing what she wanted to study. Plus she got the creepy feeling the man had upped the film-
speed in these few-frame human flashes, to thwart just such study. It was like he couldn't help putting human flashes in, but he
wanted to get them in as quickly and unstudyably as possible, as if they compromised him somehow.
     Orin Incandenza had been only the second boy ever to approach her in a male-female way.307297 The first had been shiny-
chinned and half blind on Everclear punch, an All-Kentucky lineman for the Shiny Prize Biting Shoats team back in Shiny Prize
KY, at a cookout to which the Boosters had invited the Pep and Baton girls; and the lineman had looked like a little shy boy as he
confessed, by way of apologizing for almost splashing her when he threw up, that she was just too Goddamn-all petrifyingly
pretty to approach any other way but liquored up past all horror. The lineman'd confessed the whole team's paralyzing horror of
the prettiness of varsity Pep's top twirler, Joelle. Orin confessed to his private name for her. The memory of that H.S. afternoon
remained real strong. She could smell the mesquite smoke and the blue pines and the YardGuard spray, hear the squeals of the
stock they butchered and cleaned in symbolic prep for the opener against the N. Paducah Technical H.S. Rivermen. She could still
see the swooning lineman, wet-lipped and confessing, keeping himself upright against an immature blue pine until the blue pine's
trunk finally gave with a snap and crash.
     Until that cookout and confession she'd somehow thought it was her own personal Daddy, somehow, discouraging dates and
male-female approaches. The whole thing had been queer, and lonely, until she'd been approached by Orin, who made no secret of
the fact that he had balls of unrejectable steel where horrifyingly pretty girls were concerned.
     But it wasn't even the subjective identification she felt, watching, she felt, somehow, for the flashes and seeming non-seqs
that betrayed something more than cold hip technical abstraction. Like e.g. the 240-second motionless low-angle shot of
Gianlorenzo Bernini's 'Ecstasy of St. Teresa,' which -- yes -- ground Pre-Nuptial... '$ dramatic movement to an annoying halt and
added nothing that a 15- or 30-second still shot wouldn't have added just as well; but on the fifth or sixth reviewing Joelle started
to see the four-minute motionless shot as important for what was absent: the whole film was from the alcoholic sandwich-bag
salesman's POV,308298 and the alcoholic sandwich-bag salesman -- or rather his head -- was on-screen every moment, even
when split-screened against the titanic celestial marathon seven-card-stud-with-Tarot-cards game -- his rolling eyes and temples'
dents and rosary of upper-lip sweat was imposed nonstop on the screen and viewer . . . except for the four narrative minutes the
alcoholic sandwich-bag salesman stood in the Vittorio's Bernini room, and the climactic statue filled the screen and pressed
against all four edges. The statue, the sensuous presence of the thing, let the alcoholic sandwich-bag salesman escape himself, his
tiresome ubiquitous involuted head, she saw, was the thing. The four-minute still shot maybe wasn't just a heavy-art gesture or
audience-hostile herring. Freedom from one's own head, one's inescapable P.O.V. --Joelle started to see here, oblique to the point
of being hidden, an emotional thrust, since the mediated transcendence of self was just what the apparently decadent statue of the
orgasmic nun claimed for itself as subject. Here then, after studious (and admittedly kind of boring) review, was an un-ironic,
almost moral thesis to the campy abstract mordant cartridge: the film's climactic statue's stasis presented the theoretical subject as
the emotional effect -- self-forgetting as the Grail -- and -- in a covert gesture almost moralistic, Joelle thought as she glanced at
the room-lit screen, very high, mouth writhing as she cleaned -- presented the self-forgetting of alcohol as inferior to that of
religion/art (since the consumption of bourbon made the salesman's head progressively swell, horrendously, until by the film's end
its dimensions exceeded the frame, and he had a nasty and humiliating time squeezing it through the front door of the Vittorio).
     It didn't much matter once she'd met the whole family anyhow, though. The Work and reviewings were just an inkling --
usually felt on the small manageable bits of coke that helped her see deeper, harder, and so maybe not even objectively accessible
in the Work itself-- a lower-belly intuition that the punter's hurt take on his father was limited and arrested and maybe unreal.
     With Joelle makeupless and stone-sober and hair up in a sloppy knot, the introductory supper with Orin and Himself at Legal
Seafood up in Brookline309299 betrayed nothing much at all, save that the director seemed more than able to resist 'using' Joelle
in any capacity -- she saw the tall man slump and cringe when Orin told him the P.G.O.A.T. majored in F&C310300--Jim'd told
her later she'd seemed too conventionally, commercially pretty to consider using in any of that period's Work, part of whose
theoretical project was to militate against received U.S. commercial-prettiness-conventions -- and that Orin was so tense in
'Himself 's presence that there wasn't room for any other real emotion at the table, Orin gradually beginning to fill up silences with
more and faster nonstop blather until both Joelle and Jim were embarrassed at the fact that the punter hadn't touched his steamed
grouper or given anyone else space for a word of reply.
      Jim later told Joelle that he simply didn't know how to speak with either of his undamaged sons without their mother's
presence and mediation. Orin could not be made to shut up, and Hal was so completely shut down in Jim's presence that the
silences were excruciating. Jim said he suspected he and Mario were so easy with each other only because the boy had been too
damaged and arrested even to speak to until he was six, so that both he and Jim had got a chance to become comfortable in mutual
silence, though Mario did have an interest in lenses and film that had nothing to do with fathers or needs to please, so that the
interest was something truly to share, the two of them; and even when Mario was allowed to work crew on some of Jim's later
Work it was without any of the sort of pressures to interact or bond via film that there'd been with Orin and Hal and tennis, at
which Jim (Orin informed her) had been a late-blooming junior but a top collegian.
      Jim referred to the Work's various films as 'entertainments.' He did this ironically about half the time.
      In the cab (that Jim had hailed for them), on the way back home from Legal Seafood, Orin had beaten his fine forehead
against the plastic partition and wept that he couldn't seem to communicate with Himself without his mother's presence and
mediation. It wasn't clear how the Moms mediated or facilitated communication between different family-members, he said. But
she did. He didn't have one fucking clue how Himself felt about his abandoning a decade's tennis for punting, Orin wept. Or about
Orin's being truly great at it, at something, finally. Was he proud, or jealously threatened, or judgmental that Orin had quit tennis,
or what?
      The 5-Woman's room's mattresses were too skinny for their frames, and the rims of the frames between the slats were
appallingly clotted with dust, with female hair entwined and involved in the dust, so that it took one Kleenex just to wet the stuff
down, several dry ones to wipe the muck out. Charlotte Treat had been too sick to shower for days, and her frame and slats were
hard to be near.
      At Joelle's first interface with the whole sad family unit -- Thanksgiving, Headmaster's House, E.T.A., straight up Comm.
Ave. in Enfield -- Orin's Moms Mrs. Incandenza ('Please do call me Avril, Joelle') had been gracious and warm and attentive
without obtruding, and worked unobtrusively hard to put everyone at ease and to facilitate communication, and to make Joelle feel
like a welcomed and esteemed part of the family gathering -- and something about the woman made every follicle on Joelle's
body pucker and distend. It wasn't that Avril Incandenza was one of the tallest women Joelle had ever seen, and definitely the
tallest pretty older woman with immaculate posture (Dr. Incandenza slumped something awful) she'd ever met. It wasn't that her
syntax was so artless and fluid and imposing. Nor the near-sterile cleanliness of the home's downstairs (the bathroom's toilet
seemed not only scrubbed but waxed to a high shine). And it wasn't that Avril's graciousness was in any conventional way fake. It
took a long time for Joelle even to start to put a finger on what gave her the howling fantods about Orin's mother. The dinner
itself-- no turkey; some politico-familial in-joke about no turkey on Thanksgiving -- was delicious without being grandiose.
They didn't even sit down to eat until 2300h. Avril drank champagne out of a little fluted glass whose level somehow never went
down. Dr. Incandenza (no invitation to call him Jim, she noticed) drank at a tri-faceted tumbler of something that made the air
above it shimmer slightly. Avril put everyone at ease. Orin did credible impressions of famous figures. He and little Hal made dry
fun of Avril's Canadian pronunciation of certain diphthongs. Avril and Dr. Incandenza took turns cutting up Mario's salmon.
Joelle had a weird half-vision of Avril hiking her knife up hilt-first and plunging it into Joelle's breast. Hal Incandenza and two
other lopsidedly muscular boys from the tennis school ate like refugees and were regarded with gentle amusement. Avril dabbed
her mouth in a patrician way after every bite. Joelle wore girl-clothes, her dress's neckline very high. Hal and Orin looked vaguely
alike. Avril directed every fourth comment to Joelle, to include her. Orin's brother Mario was stunted and complexly deformed.
There was a spotless doggie-dish under the table, but no dog, and no mention was ever made of a dog. Joelle noticed Avril also
directed every fourth comment to Orin, Hal, and Mario, like a cycle of even inclusion. There was New York white and Albertan
champagne. Dr. Incandenza drank his drink instead of wine, and got up several times to freshen his drink in the kitchen. A
massive hanging garden behind Avril's and Hal's captains' chairs cut complex shadows into the UV light that made the table's
candles' glow a weird bright blue. The director was so tall he seemed to rise forever, when he rose with his tumbler. Joelle had the
queerest indefensible feeling that Avril wished her ill; she kept feeling different areas of hair stand up. Everybody Please-and-
Thank-You'd in a way that was sheer Yankee WASP. After his second trip to the kitchen, Dr. Incandenza molded his twice-baked
potatoes into an intricate futuristic cityscape and suddenly started to discourse animatedly on the 1946 breakup of Hollywood's
monolithic Studio system and the subsequent rise of the Method actors Brando, Dean, Clift et al., arguing for a causal connection.
His voice was mid-range and mild and devoid of accent. Orin's Moms had to be over two meters tall, way taller than Joelle's own
personal Daddy. Joelle could somehow tell Avril was the sort of female who'd been ungainly as a girl and then blossomed and but
who'd only become really beautiful later in life, like thirty-five. She'd decided Dr. Incandenza looked like an ecologically
poisoned crane, she told him later. Mrs. Incandenza put everyone at ease. Joelle imagined her with a conductor's baton. She never
did tell Jim that Orin called him The Mad or Sad Stork. The whole Thanksgiving table inclined very subtly toward Avril, very
slightly and subtly, like heliotropes. Joelle found herself doing it too, the inclining. Dr. Incandenza kept shading his eyes from the
UV plant-light in a gesture that resembled a salute. Avril referred to her plants as her Green Babies. At some point out of nowhere,
little Hal Incandenza, maybe ten, announced that the basic unit of luminous intensity is the Candela, which he defined for no one
in particular as the luminous intensity of 1/600,000 of a square meter of a cavity at the freezing-temperature of platinum. All the
table's males wore coats and ties. The larger of Hal's two tennis partners passed out dental stimulators, and no one made fun of
him. Mario's grin seemed both obscene and sincere. Hal, whom Joelle wasn't crazy about, kept asking wasn't anybody going to ask
him the freezing-temperature of platinum. Joelle and Dr. Incandenza found themselves in a small conversation about Bazin, a
film-theorist Himself detested, making a tormented face at the name. Joelle intrigued the optical scientist and director by
explaining Ba-zin's disparagement of self-conscious directorial expression as historically connected to the neo-Thomist Realism of
the 'Personalistes,' an aesthetic school of great influence over French Catholic intellectuals circa 1930-1940 -- many of Bazin's
teachers had been eminent Personalistes. Avril encouraged Joelle to describe rural Kentucky. Orín did a long impression of late
pop-astronomer Carl Sagan expressing televisual awe at the cosmos' scale. 'Billions and billions,' he said. One of the tennis friends
burped just awfully, and no one reacted to the sound in any way. Orin said 'Billions and billions and billions' in the voice of
Sagan. Avril and Hal had a brief good-natured argument about whether the term circa could modify an interval or only a specific
year. Then Hal asked for several examples of something called Haplology. Joelle kept fighting urges to slap the sleek little show-
offy kid upside the head so hard his bow-tie would spin. 'The universe:' -- Orin continued long after the wit had worn thin --
'cold, immense, incredibly universal.' The subjects of tennis, baton-twirling, and punting never came up: organized sports were
never once mentioned. Joelle noticed that nobody seemed to look directly at Dr. Incandenza except her. A curious flabby white
mammarial dome covered part of the Academy's grounds outside the dining room's window. Mario plunged his special fork into
Dr. Incandenza's potato-cityscape, to general applause and certain grating puns on the term deconstruction from the insufferable
Hal kid. Everyone's teeth were dazzling in the candlelight and UV. Hal wiped Mario's snout, which seemed to run continuously.
Avril invited Joelle by all means to make a Thanksgiving call home to her family in rural Kentucky if she wished. Orin said the
Moms was herself originally from rural Quebec. Joelle was on her seventh glass of wine. Orin's fingering his half-Windsor kept
looking more and more like a signal to somebody. Avril urged Dr. Incandenza to find a way to include Joelle in a production,
since she was both a film student and a now a heartily welcome honorary addition to the family. Mario, reaching for the salad, fell
out of his chair, and was helped up by one of the tennis players amid much hilarity. Mario's deformities seemed wide-ranging and
hard to name. Joelle decided he looked like a cross between a puppet and one of the big-headed carnivores from Spielberg's old
special-effects orgies about reptiles. Hal and Avril hashed out whether misspoke was a bona fide word. Dr. Incandenza's tall
narrow head kept inclining toward his plate and then slowly rising back up in a way that was either meditative or tipsy. Deformed
Mario's broad smile was so constant you could have hung things from the corners of it. In a fake Southern-belle accent that was
clearly no jab at Joelle, more like a Scarlett O'Hara accent, Avril said she did declare that Albertan champagne always gave her
'the vapors.' Joelle noticed that pretty much everybody at the table was smiling, broadly and constantly, eyes shiny in the plants'
odd light. She was doing it herself, too, she noticed; her cheek muscles were starting to ache. Hal's larger friend kept pausing to
use his dental stimulator. Nobody else was using their dental stimulator, but everyone held one politely, as if getting ready to use
it. Hal and the two friends made odd spasmic one-handed squeezing motions, periodically. No one seemed to notice. Not once in
Orin's presence did anyone mention the word tennis. He had been up half the previous night vomiting with anxiety. Now he
challenged Hal to name the freezing-point of platinum. Joelle couldn't for the life of her remember either of the names of poor old
Spielberg's old computer-enhanced celluloid dinosaur things, though her own Daddy'd personally taken her to each one. At some
point Orin's father got up to go freshen his drink and never returned.
     Just before dessert -- which was on fire -- Orin's Moms had asked whether they could perhaps all join hands secularly for a
moment and simply be grateful for all being together. She made a special point of asking Joelle to include her hands in the hand-
holding. Joelle held Orin's hand and Hal's smaller friend's hand, which was so callused up it felt like some sort of rind. Dessert
was Cherries Jubilee with gourmet New Brunswick ice cream. Dr. Incandenza's absence from the table went unmentioned, almost
unnoticed, it seemed. Both Hal and his nonstimulating friend pleaded for Kahlua, and Mario flapped pathetically at the tabletop in
imitation. Avril made a show of gazing at Orin in mock-horror as he produced a cigar and clipper. There was also a blancmange.
The coffee was decaf with chickory. When Joelle looked over again, Orin had put his cigar away without lighting it.
     The dinner ended in a kind of explosion of goodwill.
     Joelle'd felt half-crazed. She could detect nothing fake about the lady's grace and cheer toward her, the goodwill. And at the
same time felt sure in her guts' pit that the woman could have sat there and cut out Joelle's pancreas and thymus and minced them
and prepared sweetbreads and eaten them chilled and patted her mouth without batting an eye. And unremarked by all who leaned
her way.
     On the way back home, in a cab whose company's phone-number Hal had summoned from memory, Orin hung his leg over
Joelle's crossed legs and said that if anybody could have been counted on to see that the Stork needed to use Joelle somehow, it
was the Moms. He asked Joelle twice how she'd liked her. Joelle's cheek muscles ached something awful. When they got back to
the brownstone co-op on that last pre-Subsidized Thanksgiving was the first historical time Joelle intentionally did lines of
cocaine to keep from sleeping. Orin couldn't ingest anything during the season even if he wanted to: B.U.'s major-sport teams
Tested randomly. So Joelle was awake at 0400, cleaning back behind the refrigerator for the second time, when Orin cried out in
the nightmare she'd somehow felt should have been hers.