      Part of Don Gately's live-in Staff job is that he hurtles here and there on selected Ennet House errands. He cooks the
communal supper on weekdays,188178 which means he does the House's weekly shopping, which means that at least a couple
times a week he gets to take Pat Montesian's black 1964 Ford Aventura and drive to the Purity Supreme Market. The Aventura is
an antique variant of the Mustang, the sort of car you usually only see waxed and static in car shows with somebody in a bikini
pointing at it. Pat's is functional and mint-reconditioned -- her shadowy husband with something like ten years sober being big
into cars -- with such a wicked nice multilayer paint job that its black has the bottomless quality of water at night. It has two
different alarm systems and a red metal bar you're supposed to lock across the steering wheel when you get out. The engine
sounds more like a jet engine than a piston engine, plus there's a scoop poking periscopically from the hood, and for Gately the
vehicle's so terrifically tight and sleek it's like being strapped into a missile and launched at the site of a domestic errand. He can
barely fit in the driver's seat. The steering wheel is about the size of an old video-arcade game's steering wheel, and the thin canted
six-speed shift is encased in a red leather baglet that smells strongly of leather. The height of the car's roof compromises Gately's
driving-posture, and his right ham like exceeds the seat and squeezes against the gearshift so that shifting pinches his hip. He does
not care. Some of the profoundest spiritual feelings of his sobriety so far are for this car. He'd drive this car if the driver's seat was
just a sharp pointy spike, he told John-ette Foltz. Johnette Foltz is the other live-in Staffer, though between ultra-rabid
Commitment-activity in NA and a somehow damaged NA fiance she spends a lot of time pushing around places in a wicker
wheelchair, she's around Ennet House less and less now, and there are rumblings about a possible replacement, which Gately and
the heterosexual male residents pray daily will be the leggy alumna and part-time counselor Danielle Steen-bok, who's rumored
also to attend Sex and Love Addicts Anonymous, which engages everyone's imagination to the max.
      It's a mark of serious regard and questionable judgment that Director Pat M. lets Don Gately drive her priceless Aventura,
even just to like the Metro Food Bank or Purity Supreme, because Gately lost his license more or less permanently back in the
Year of the Whisper-Quiet Maytag Dishmaster for getting pinched on a DUI in Peabody on a license that had already been
suspended for a previous DUI in Lowell. This was not the only Loss Don Gately incurred as his chemical careers moved toward
their life-reversing climax. Once every couple months now, still, he has to put on his brown dress slacks and slightly irregular
green sportcoat from Brighton Budget Large 'N Tall Menswear and take the commuter rail up to selected District Court venues on
the North Shore and meet with his various P.D.s and P.O.s and caseworkers and sometimes appear briefly up in front of Judges
and Review Boards to review the progress of his sobriety and reparations. When he first came to Ennet House last year, Gately
had Bad-Check and Forgery issues, he had a Malicious Destruction of Property issue, plus two D&Ds and a bullshit Public
Urination out of Tewksbury. He had a Break-and-Enter from a silent-alarmed Peabody mansion where he and a colleague got
pinched before anything could get promoted. He had a Possession With Intent from 38 50-mg. tablets of Demerol189179 in a Pez
container which he'd shoved down into the crack of the Peabody Finest's cruiser's back seat, but which got found anyway on the
routine post-transport cruiser-search all cops perform when the arrestee's pupils are unresponsive both to light and to head-slaps.
      There was, too, of course, a certain darker issue, vis-à-vis a certain upscale Brookline home whose late owner had been
eulogized at terrifying length and headline-size in both the Globe and Herald. After eight months of indescribable psychic
cringing, waiting for the legal footwear to drop on the Nuck-VIP issue -- toward the end of his drug-use Gately'd gotten sloppy
and crazy and stuck idiotically with a method of straight meter-shunting that he'd learned up at MCI-Billerica and was pretty sure
now constituted a signature Gately M.O., since the older guy that'd taught it to him in the Billerica metal-shop had subsequently
got out and gone to Utah and died of a morphine overdose (and like who on earth hopes to get reliable morphine in fucking Utah?)
over two years ago -- after eight months of cringing and nail-biting, the last couple months of the torment in Ennet House -- even
though the House's D.S.A.S.-license put it legally off-limits to all constabulary without Pat Montesian's physical presence and
notarized permission -- after he was down to the cuticles on all ten digits, Gately had very discreetly approached a certain
Percodan-devoted court stenographer an old girlfriend had once dealt to, and had the guy make equally discreet inquiries, and
found that the potential Murder-2 investigation of the botched burglary190180 had been taken over -- pace the loud howls of a
certain remorseless Revere A.D.A. -- by something federal the addled stenographer called 'Non-Specific Services Bureau,'
whereupon the case vanished from any sort of investigative scene the stenographer could make inquiries about, though quiet
rumor had it that current suspicions were being directed at certain shadowy Nucko-political bodies all the way up in Quebec, far
north of the Enfield MA where Gately had been cringing his way to nightly AA meetings with his fingers in his mouth.
      Most of the cases Gately had had pending his P.D. had gotten Closed Without Finding,191181 contingent on Gately's entering
long-term treatment and maintaining chemical abstinence and submitting to random urinalyses and making biweekly reparation
payments out of the pathetic paychecks he earned cleaning shit and sperm under Stavros Lobokulas and now also cooking and
live-in-Staffing at Ennet House. The only issue not resolved on a Blue-File deferral was the business of driving with a DUI-
suspended license. In the Commonwealth of MA, this issue carries a mandatory 90-day bit, as in like the penalty's written right
into the statute; and the case's P.D. has been up-front with Gately about it's only a matter of the time of the wheels' slow judicial
grind before some judge Red-Files the issue and the case and Gately has to do the bit at someplace MCI-Minimum like Concord
or Deer Island. Gately isn't too hinked about 90 inside. At twenty-four he'd done 17 months at Billerica for assaulting two
bouncers in a nightclub -- it was more like he'd beaten the second bouncer bloody with the unconscious body of the first -- and
he knew quite well he could get by in a Commonwealth lockdown. He was too big to fuck or fuck with and not interested in
fucking with anyone else: he did his time stand-up and gave nobody any provoking cause; and when the first couple hard guys had
come after him for his canteen cigarettes he'd laughed it off with ferocious jolliness, and when they came back a second time
Gately beat them half to death in the corridor behind the weight room where he could be sure plenty of other guys could hear it,
and after that one incident was out of the way he could simply get by and not get fucked with. Gately now was hinked only about
the prospect of getting just one or two AA meetings a week in jail -- the only meetings sober inmates get are when an area Group
comes in on an Institutional Commitment, which Gately's been on -- when Demerol and Talwin and good old weed are almost
easier to get in jail than in the outside world. Gately cringed now only at the thought of the Sergeant at Arms, the distinguished-
looking shepherd guy. Going back to ingesting Substances had become his biggest fear. Even Gately can tell this is a major
psychic turn-around. He tells the newer residents right up front that AA's somehow gotten him by the mental curlies: he'll now go
to literally Any Lengths to stay clean.
      He'll tell them right out that he'd first come to Ennet House only to keep out of jail, and hadn't had much interest or hope
about actually staying clean for any length of time; and he'd been up-front with Pat Montesian about this during his application
interview. The grim honesty about his disinterest and hopelessness was one reason Pat even let such a clearly bad-news specimen
into the House on nothing but a lukewarm referral from a P.O. up at the 5th District office in Peabody. Pat told Gately that grim
honesty and hopelessness were the only things you need to start recovering from Substance-addiction, but that without these
qualities you were totally up the creek. Desperation helped also, she said. Gately scratched at her dog's stomach and said he wasn't
sure if he was desperate about anything except wanting to somehow stop getting in trouble for things he usually afterward couldn't
even remember he did them. The dog trembled and shuddered and its eyes rolled up as Gately, who hadn't been told about Pat's
thing about wanting her dogs petted, rubbed its scabby stomach. Pat had said like well that was enough, that desire for the
shitstorm to end.192182 Gately said her dog sure did like having its stomach rubbed, and Pat explained that the dog was epileptic,
and said that just a desire to stop blacking out was more than enough to start with. She pulled some Commonwealth Substance-
Abuse study in a black plastic binder off a long black plastic bookshelf filled with black plastic binders. It turned out Pat
Montesian liked the color black a lot. She was dressed -- really kind of overdressed, for a halfway house -- in black leather pants
and a black shirt of silk or something silky. Outside the bay window a Green Line train was laboring up the first Enfield hill in the
late-summer rain. The downhill view from the bay window over Pat's black lacquer or enamelísh desk was like the only
spectacular thing about Ennet House, which was otherwise a wicked awful dump. Pat made a sound against the binder with a
Svelte nail-extension and said that in this state study right here, conducted in the Year of the Tucks Medicated Pad, over 60% of
the inmates serving Life sentences in hellish MCI-Walpole and not disputing that they'd done what they'd done to get in there
nevertheless had no memory of having done it, whatever got them in there. For Life. None. Gately had to have her run it by him a
couple times before he isolated her point. They'd been in blackouts. Pat said a blackout was where you continued to function --
sometimes disastrously -- but weren't aware later of what you did. It's like your mind wasn't in possession of your body, and it
was usually brought on by alcohol but could also be brought on by chronic use of other Substances, synthetic narcotics among
them. Gately said he couldn't recall ever having a real blackout, and Pat M. got it but didn't laugh. The dog was heaving and
quivering with its legs spronged out to all points of the compass and kind of spasming, and Gately didn't know whether to quit
rubbing on it. To be honest he didn't know what epilepsy was but suspected Pat was not referring to the woman's leg-shaver thing
his totally alcoholic past girlfriend Pamela Hoffman-Jeep used to scream in the bathroom when she used. Everything mental for
Gately was kind of befogged and prone to misprision for well into his first year clean.
      Pat Montesian was both pretty and not. She was in maybe her late thirties. She'd supposedly been this young and pretty and
wealthy socialite out on the Cape until her husband had divorced her for being a nearly fullblown alcoholic, which seemed like
abandonment and didn't improve her subsequent drinking one jot. She'd been in and out of rehabs and halfway places in her
twenties, but then it wasn't until she'd almost died from a stroke during the D.T.s one A.M. that she'd been able to Surrender and
Come In with the requisite hopeless desperation, etc. Gately didn't wince when he heard about Pat's stroke because his mom hadn't
had D.T.s or a classic stroke, but rather a cirrhotic hemorrhage that made her choke and deprived her brain of oxygen and had
irreparably vegetabilized her brain. The two cases were totally, like, apart in his mind. Pat M. was never in any way a mother-
figure for Gately. Pat liked to smile and say, when residents pissed and moaned about their own addictions' Losses during the
weekly House Community Meeting, she'd nod and smile and say that for her, the stroke had been far and away the best thing that's
ever happened to her because it enabled her to finally Surrender. She'd come to Ennet House in an electric wheelchair at thirty-two
and been unable to communicate except via like Morse-Code blinks or something for the first six months,193183 but had even
without use of her arms demonstrated a willingness to try and eat a rock when the founding Guy Who Didn't Even Use His First
Name told her to, using her torso and neck to like chop downwardly at the rock and chipping both incisors (you can still see the
caps at the corners), and had gotten sober, and remarried a different and older South Shore like trillionaire with what sounded like
psychotic kids, and but regained an unexpected amount of function, and had been working at the House ever since. The right side
of her face was still pulled way over in this sort of rictus, and her speech took Gately some getting used to -- it sounded like she
was still loaded all the time, a kind of overenunciated slurring. The half of her face that wasn't rictusized was very pretty, and she
had very long pretty red hair, and a sexually credible body even though her right arm had atrophied into a kind of semi-
claw194184 and the right hand was strapped into this black plastic brace to keep its nail-extensioned fingers from curling into her
palm; and Pat walked with a dignified but godawful lurch, dragging a terribly thin right leg in black leather pants behind her like
something hanging on to her that she was trying to get away from.
     During his residency, she'd gone personally with Gately on most of his bigger court-dates, driving him up to the North Shore
in the killer Aventura with its Handicapped plates -- she because of the neurological right-leg thing literally had a lead foot, and
drove all the time like a maniac, and Gately had usually almost wet himself on Rte. 1 -- and she'd throw all En-net House's
substantial respect and clout behind him with Judges and Boards, until every issue that could be resolved without finding was
Blue-Filed. Gately still couldn't figure out why all the personal extra attention and help. It was like he'd been Pat M.'s biggest
favorite among the residents last year. She did have favorites and nonfavorites; it was probably unavoidable. Annie Parrot and the
counselors and House Manager always had their particular favorites, too, so it all tended to work out square.
     About four months into his Ennet House residency, the agonizing desire to ingest synthetic narcotics had been mysteriously
magically removed from Don Gately, just like the House Staff and the Crocodiles at the White Flag Group had said it would if he
pounded out the nightly meetings and stayed minimally open and willing to persistently ask some extremely vague Higher Power
to remove it. The desire. They said to get creakily down on his mammoth knees in the A.M. every day and ask God As He
Understood Him to remove the agonizing desire, and to hit the old knees again at night before sack and thank this God-ish figure
for the Substanceless day just ended, if he got through it. They suggested he keep his shoes and keys under the bed to help him
remember to get on his knees. The only times Gately had ever been on his knees before were to throw up or mate, or shunt a low-
on-the-wall alarm, or if somebody got lucky during a beef and landed one near Gately's groin. He didn't have any God- or J.C.-
background, and the knee-stuff seemed like the limpest kind of dickless pap, and he felt like a true hypocrite just going through
the knee-motions that he went through faithfully every A.M. and p.m., without fail, motivated by a desire to get loaded so horrible
that he often found himself humbly praying for his head to just finally explode already and get it over with. Pat had said it didn't
matter at this point what he thought or believed or even said. All that mattered was what he did. If he did the right things, and kept
doing them for long enough, what Gately thought and believed would magically change. Even what he said. She'd seen it happen
again and again, and to some awfully unlikely candidates for change. She said it had happened to her. The left side of her face was
very alive and kind. And Gately's counselor, an ex-coke and -phone-bunko guy whose left ear had been one of his Losses, had hit
Gately early on with the infamous Boston AA cake analogy. The grizzled Filipino had met with the resident Don G. once a week,
driving Gately around Brighton-Allston in aimless circles in a customized Subaru 4x4 just like the ones Gately used to hotwire
and promote to use for burgling. Eugenio Martinez had this eccentric thing where he maintained he could only be in touch with
his own Higher Power when he was driving. Down near E.W.D.'s barge-docks off the Allston Spur one night he invited Gately to
think of Boston AA as a box of Betty Crocker Cake Mix. Gately had smacked himself in the forehead at yet another limp oblique
Gene M. analogy, which Gene had already bludgeoned him with several insectile tropes for thinking about the Disease. The
counselor had let him vent spleen for a while, smoking as he crawled along behind land-barges lined up to unload. He told Gately
to just imagine for a second that he's holding a box of Betty Crocker Cake Mix, which represented Boston AA. The box came with
directions on the side any eight-year-· old could read. Gately said he was waiting for the mention of some kind of damn insect
inside the cake mix. Gene M. said all Gately had to do was for fuck's sake give himself a break and relax and for once shut up and
just follow the directions on the side of the fucking box. It didn't matter one fuckola whether Gately like believed a cake would
result, or whether he understood the like fucking baking-chemistry of how a cake would result: if he just followed the
motherfucking directions, and had sense enough to get help from slightly more experienced bakers to keep from fucking the direc-
tions up if he got confused somehow, but basically the point was if he just followed the childish directions, a cake would result.
He'd have his cake. The only thing Gately knew about cake was that the frosting was the best part, and he personally found
Eugenio Martinez a smug and self-righteous prick -- plus he'd always distrusted both Orientals and spies, and Gene M. managed
to seem like both -- but he didn't screw out of the House or quite do anything they could Discharge him for, and he went to
meetings nightly and told the more or less truth, and he did the shoe-under-bed knee thing every a.m./p.m. 24/7, and he took the
suggestion to join a Group and get rabidly Active and clean up ashtrays and go out speaking on Commitments. He had nothing in
the way of a like God-concept, and at that point maybe even less than nothing in terms of interest in the whole thing; he treated
prayer like setting an oven-temp according to a box's direction. Thinking of it as talking to the ceiling was somehow preferable to
imagining talking to Nothing. And he found it embarrassing to get down on his knees in his underwear, and like the other guys in
the room he always pretended his sneakers were like way under the bed and he had to stay down there a while to find them and get
them out, when he prayed, but he did it, and beseeched the ceiling and thanked the ceiling, and after maybe five months Gately
was riding the Greenie at 0430 to go clean human turds out of the Shattuck shower and all of a sudden realized that quite a few
days had gone by since he'd even thought about Demerol or Talwin or even weed. Not just merely getting through those last few
days -- Substances hadn't even occurred to him. I.e. the Desire and Compulsion had been Removed. More weeks went by, a blur
of Commitments and meetings and gasper-smoke and cliches, and he still didn't feel anything like his old need to get high. He
was, in a way, Free. It was the first time he'd been out of this kind of mental cage since he was maybe ten. He couldn't believe it.
He wasn't Grateful so much as kind of suspicious about it, the Removal. How could some kind of Higher Power he didn't even
believe in magically let him out of the cage when Gately had been a total hypocrite in even asking something he didn't believe in
to let him out of a cage he had like zero hope of ever being let out of? When he could only get himself on his knees for the prayers
in the first place by pretending to look for his shoes? He couldn't for the goddamn life of him understand how this thing worked,
this thing that was working. It drove him bats. At about seven months, at the little Sunday Beginners' Mtg., he actually cracked
one of the Provident's fake-wood tabletops beating his big square head against it.195185
     White Flagger ('Ferocious') Francis Gehaney, one of the most ancient and gnarled of the Crocodiles, had a white crew cut and
skallycap and suspenders over the flannel shirt that encased his gut, and an enormous cucumber-shaped red schnoz you could
actually see whole arteries in the skin of, and brown stumpy teeth and emphysema and a portable little oxygen-tank thing whose
blue tube was held under the schnoz with white tape, and the very clear bright eye-whites that went along with the extremely low
resting pulse-rate of a guy with geologic amounts of sober AA time. Ferocious Francis G., whose mouth was never without a
toothpick and who had on his right forearm a faded martini-glass-and-naked-lady tattoo of Korean-War-vintage, who'd gotten
sober under the Nixon administration and who communicated in the obscene but antiquated epigrams the Crocs all used196186 --
F.F. had taken Gately out for eye-rattling amounts of coffee, after the incident with the table and the head. He'd listened with the
slight boredom of detached Identification to Gately's complaint that there was no way something he didn't understand enough to
even start to believe in was seriously going to be interested in helping save his ass, even if He/She/It did in some sense exist.
Gately still doesn't quite know why it helped, but somehow it helped when Ferocious Francis suggested that maybe anything
minor-league enough for Don Gately to understand probably wasn't going to be major-league enough to save Gately's addled ass
from the well-dressed Sergeant at Arms, now, was it?
     That was months ago. Gately usually no longer much cares whether he understands or not. He does the knee-and-ceiling thing
twice a day, and cleans shit, and listens to dreams, and stays Active, and tells the truth to the Ennet House residents, and tries to
help a couple of them if they approach him wanting help. And when Ferocious Francis G. and the White Flaggers presented him,
on the September Sunday that marked his first year sober, with a faultlessly baked and heavily frosted one-candle cake, Don
Gately had cried in front of nonrelatives for the first time in his life. He now denies that he actually did cry, saying something
about candle-fumes in his eye. But he did.
     Gately is an unlikely choice for Ennet House chef, having fed for most of the last twelve years on sub-shop subs and
corporate snack foods consumed amid some sort of motion. He is 188 cm. and 128 kg. and had never once eaten broccoli or a pear
until last year. Chef-wise, he offers up an exceptionless routine of: boiled hot dogs; dense damp meat loaf with little pieces of
American cheese and half a box of cornflakes on top, for texture; Cream of Chicken soup over spirochete-shaped noodles;
ominously dark, leathery Shake 'N Bake chicken legs; queasily underdone hamburgs; and hamburg-sauce spaghetti whose pasta
he boils for almost an hour.197187 None but the most street-hardened Ennet residents would ever hazard an open crack about the
food, which appears nightly at the long dinner table still in the broad steaming pans it was cooked in, with Gately's big face
hovering lun-arly above it, flushed and beaded under the floppy chef's hat Annie Parrot had given him as a dark joke he hadn't got,
his eyes full of anxiety and hopes for everyone's full enjoyment, basically looking like a nervous bride serving her first conjugal
dish, except this bride's hands are the same size as the House's dinner plates and have jailhouse tatts on them, and this bride seems
to need no oven-mitts as he sets down massive pans on the towels that have to be laid down to keep the plastic tabletop from
searing. Any sort of culinary comments are always extremely oblique. Randy Lenz up at the northeast corner likes to raise his can
of tonic and say that Don's food is the kind of food that helps you really appreciate whatever you're drinking along with it.
Geoffrey Day talks about what a refreshing change it is to leave a dinner table not feeling bloated. Wade McDade, a young hard-
core flask-alkie from Ashland KY, and Doony Glynn, who's still woozy and infirm from some horrendous Workers Comp. scam
gone awry last year, and is constantly sickly and who's probably going to get Discharged soon for losing his menial job at
Brighton Fence & Wire and not even pretending to look for another one -- the two have this bit they do on spaghetti night where
McDade comes into the living room right before chow and goes 'Some of that extra-fine spay-ghetti tonight, Doonster,' and Doony
Glynn goes 'Ooo, will it be all lovely and soft?' and McDade goes 'Leave your teeth at home, boy' in the voice of a Kentucky
sheriff, leading Glynn to the table by the hand as if Glynn were a damaged child. They take care to do the bit while Gately's still in
the kitchen tossing salad and worrying about course-presentation. Though Tiny Ewell never fails to thank Gately for the meal, and
April Cortelyu is lavish in her praises, and Burt F. Smith always rolls his eyes with pleasure and makes yummy-noises whenever
he can get a fork to his mouth.