     By a rather creepy coincidence, it turned out that, up in our room, Kyle Dempsy Coyle and Mario were also watching one of
Himself's old efforts. Mario had gotten his pants on and was using his special tool to zip and button. Coyle looked oddly
traumatized. He was sitting on the edge of my bed, his eyes wide and his whole body with the slight tremble of something hanging
from the tip of a pipette. Mario greeted me by name. Snow continued to whirl and eddy outside the window. The position of the
sun was impossible to gauge. The net-posts were now buried almost up to their scorecard attachments. The wind was piling snow
up in drifts against all Academy right angles and then pummelling the drifts into unusual shapes. The window's whole view had
the gray grainy quality of a poor photo. The sky looked diseased. Mario worked his tool with great patience. It often took him
several tries to catch and engage the tool's jaws on the tongue of his zipper. Coyle, still wearing his apnea-mouthguard, stared at
our room's little viewer. The cartridge was Himself's Accomplice!, a short melodrama with Cosgrove Watt and a boy no one had
ever seen before or since.
     'You woke up early,' Mario said, smiling up from his fly. His bed was made up drum-tight.
     I smiled. 'Turns out I wasn't the only one.'
     'You look sad.'
     I raised my hand with the NASA glass at Coyle. 'An unexpected pleasure, K.D.C.'
     'Thtithe fickn meth,' Coyle said.
     I put the glass and toothbrush on my dresser and straightened its doily. I picked some clothing up and began separating it by
smell into wearable and unwearable.
     'Kyle says Jim Troeltsch tore some of Ortho's face off trying to pull him off a window his face got glued to,' Mario said. 'And
then Jim Troeltsch and Mr. Kenkle tried to put toilet tissue on the ripped parts, the way Tall Paul sometimes puts little bits of
Kleenex on a shaving cut, but Ortho's face was a lot worse than a shaving cut, and they used a whole roll, and now Ortho's face is
covered with toilet tissue, and the tissue's stuck now, and Ortho can't get it off, and at breakfast Mr. deLint was yelling at Ortho
for letting them put toilet tissue on it, and Ortho ran to his and Kyle's room and locked the door, and Kyle doesn't have his key
since the accident with the whirlpool.'
     I helped Mario on with his police lock's vest and affixed the Velcro nice and tight. Mario's chest is so fragile-feeling that I
could feel his heartbeat's tremble through the vest and sweatshirt.
     Coyle removed the apnea-guard. Strings of white nighttime oral material appeared between his mouth and the guard as he
extracted it. He looked to Mario. 'Tell him the worst part.'
     I was watching Coyle very closely to see what he planned to do with the sickening mouthpiece he held.
     'Hey Hal, your phone has messages, and Mike Pemulis came by and asked if you were up and about.'
     'You haven't told him the worst part of it,' Coyle said.
     'Don't even think about putting that thing down anywhere my bed, Kyle, please.'
     Tm holding it away from everything, don't worry.'
     Mario used his tool to zip up the long curved zipper of his backpack. 'Kyle said there was a problem with a discharge again --
'
     'So I heard,' I said.
     '-- and Kyle says he woke up and Ortho was missing, and Ortho's bed was missing as well, so he turned on the light --'
     Coyle gestured with the appliance: 'And lo and fucking-capital-B behold.'
     '--yes and lo,' Mario said, 'Ortho's bed is up near the ceiling of their room. The frame has some way got lifted up and bolted
to the ceiling sometime during the night without Kyle hearing it or waking up.'
     'Until the discharge, that is,' I said.
     This is it,' said Coyle. The tin cans and accusations I'm moving his stuff around are one thing. I'm going to Lateral Alice for a
switch like Troeltsch did. This is the straw.'
     Mario said 'And his bed's up on the ceiling now, still, and if it falls it's going to go right through the floor and fall in Graham
and Petropolis's room.'
     'He's in there right now all mummified in toilet paper, sulking, with his bed hanging overhead, with the door locked, so I can't
even get my apnea-guard-cleaning supplies,' Coyle said.
     I'd heard nothing about Troeltsch apparently switching room-assignments with Trevor Axford. A gigantic wedge of snow slid
down a steep part of the roof over our window and fell past the window and hit the ground below with a huge whump. For some
reason the fact that something as major as a midterm room-switch could have taken place without my knowing anything about it
filled me with dread. There were a few glitters of a possible incipient panic-attack again.
     Mario's bedside table had a tube of salve for his pelvis's burn, unevenly squeezed. Mario was looking at my face. 'Is it you're
sad about not getting to play if the Quebec players are canceled?'
     'And then to crown off the whole night he ends up with his face glued to a window,' Coyle said disgustedly.
     'Frozen,' I corrected him.
     'Except but now listen to Stice's explanation.'
     'Let me guess,' I said.
     'For the bed hovering.'
     Mario looked at Coyle. 'You said bolted.'
     'I said presumably bolted is what I said. I said the only rationale that's possible is bolts.'
     'Let me guess,' I said.
     'Let him guess,' Mario told Coyle.
     'The Darkness thinks ghosts.' Coyle stood and came toward us. His two eyes were not set quite level in his face. 'Slice's
explanation that he swore me to discretion but that was before the bed on the ceiling was he thinks he's been somehow selected or
chosen to get haunted or possessed by some kind of beneficiary or guardian ghost that resides in and/or manifests in ordinary
physical objects, that wants to teach The Darkness how to not underestimate ordinary objects and raise his game to like a
supernatural level, to help his game.' One eye was subtly lower than the other, and set at a different angle.
     'Or hurt somebody else's,' I said.
     'Stice is mentally buckling,' Coyle said, still moving in. I was careful to stay just out of morning-breath range. 'He keeps
staring at things with his temple-veins flexing, trying to exert will on them. He bet me 20 beans he could stand on his desk chair
and lift it up at the same time, and then he wouldn't let me cancel the bet when I got embarrassed for him after half an hour,
standing up there flexing his temples.'
     I was also keeping a careful eye on the oral appliance. 'Did you guys hear sausage-analog and fresh-squeezed for breakfast?'
     Mario asked again if I were sad.
     Coyle said 'I was down there. Stice's map was taking the edge off appetites all over the room. Then deLint started in yelling at
him.' He was looking at me oddly. 'I don't see what's so funny about it, man.'
     Mario fell backward onto his bed and wriggled into his backpack's straps with practiced ease.
     Coyle said 'I don't know if I should go to Schtitt, or Rusk, or what. Or Lateral Alice. What if they haul him off somewhere,
and it's my fault?'
     'There's no denying The Dark's raised his game this fall though.'
     'There are machine messages on the machine, Hal, too,' Mario said as I held his hands carefully and pulled him upright.
     'What if it's the mental buckling that's raised his game?' Coyle said. 'Does it still count as buckling?'
     Cosgrove Watt had been one of the very few professional actors Himself ever used. Himself often liked to use rank amateurs;
he wanted them simply to read their lines with an amateur's wooden self-consciousness off cue cards Mario or Disney Leith would
hold up well to the side of wherever the character was supposed to be looking. Up until the last phase of his career, Himself had
apparently thought the stilted, wooden quality of nonprofes-sionals helped to strip away the pernicious illusion of realism and to
remind the audience that they were in reality watching actors acting and not people behaving. Like the Parisian-French Bresson he
so admired, Himself had no interest in suckering the audience with illusory realism, he said. The apparent irony of the fact that it
required nonactors to achieve this stilted artificial I'm-only-acting-here quality was one of very few things about Himself's early
projects that truly interested academic critics. But the real truth was that the early Himself hadn't wanted skilled or believable
acting to get in the way of the abstract ideas and technical innovations in the cartridges, and this had always seemed to me more
like Brecht than like Bresson. Conceptual and technical ingenuity didn't much interest entertainment-film audiences, though, and
one way of looking at Himself's abandonment of anticonfluentialism is that in his last several projects he'd been so desperate to
make something that ordinary U.S. audiences might find entertaining and diverting and conducive to self-forgetting378368 that he
had had professionals and amateurs alike emoting wildly all over the place. Getting emotion out of either actors or audiences had
never struck me as one of Himself's strengths, though I could remember arguments during which Mario had claimed I didn't see a
lot of what was right there.
     Cosgrove Watt was a pro, but he wasn't very good, and before Himself discovered him, Watt's career consisted mostly of
regional-market commercials on broadcast television. His widest commercial exposure was as the Dancing Gland in a series of
spots for a chain of East Coast endocrinology clinics. He'd worn a bulbous white costume, white toupee, and either a ball-and-
chain or white tap-shoes, depending on whether he was portraying the Before-Gland or the After-Gland. Himself during one of
these commercials had shouted Eureka at our HD Sony and travelled personally all the way to Glen Riddle, Pennsylvania, where
Watt lived with his mother and her cats, to recruit him. He used Cosgrove Watt in almost every project for eighteen months. Watt
for a time was to Himself as DeNiro was to Scorsese, McLachlin to Lynch, Allen to Allen. And up until Watt's temporal-lobe
problem made his social presence unbearable, Himself had actually put Watt, mother, and cats up in a contiguous suite of what
later became prorectors' rooms off the main E.T.A. tunnel, the Moms acquiescing in this but instructing Orin, Mario, and me never
ever to remain in a room alone with Watt.
     Accomplice! was one of Watt's later roles. It is a sad and simple cartridge, and so short that the TP retracked to the film's
beginning in almost no time. Himself's film opens as a beautifully sad young bus-station male prostitute, fragile and epicene and
so blond even his eyebrows and lashes are blond, is approached in the Greyhound coffee shop by a flabby, dissipated-looking old
specimen with gray teeth and circumflex eyebrows and obvious temporal-lobe difficulties. Cosgrove Watt plays the depraved
older man, who takes the boy home to his lush but somehow scuzzy co-op apartment, in fact the place Himself had rented for O.
and the P.G.O.A.T. and had decorated in various gradations of scuz for the interiors of almost all his late projects.
     The sad and beautiful Aryan-looking boy agrees to seduction by the dissipated old specimen, but only on the condition that
the man wear protection. The boy, who is inarticulate, nevertheless makes this stipulation extremely clear. Safe Sex or No Sex, he
stipulates, holding up a familiar foil packet. The hideous old specimen -- now in a smoking jacket and ascot of apricot-colored
silk, and smoking through a long white FDR-style filter -- is offended, thinks the young male prostitute has sized him up as such
a depraved and dissipated old specimen that he might well have It, the Human Immuno Virus, he thinks. His thoughts are rendered
via animated thought-bubbles, which Himself at that late-middle stage hoped the audience would find at once self-consciously
nonillusory and wildly entertaining. Watt's old specimen is grinning grayly in what he thinks is a pleasant way as he obligingly
takes the foil packet and removes his ascot with what he believes to be a sensual flourish ... but inside his thought-bubble he's
having temporal-lobe spasms of sadistic rage at the sad blond boy for appearing to size him up as a health risk. The obvious health
risk here is referred to, both orally and in the thought-bubble, merely as It. For example: 'Little bastard thinks I'm so dissipated-
looking that I've been at this sort of thing so long that I'm likely to have It, does he,' the old specimen thinks, his thought-bubble
going all jagged with rage.
      So the flabby old specimen's now, at only six minutes into the cartridge, Track 510, he's now taking the sad beautiful boy, in
the standard (extravagantly hunched) homosexual way, on the canopied bed of his tacky boudoir: the young male prostitute's
dutifully assumed the hunched, homo-submissive position because the old ponce has showed him he's wearing the condom. The
young prostitute, who's shown (hunched) only from the left side during the act itself, seems beautiful in a fragile, skinny-flanked,
visible-ribs way, while the old specimen has the slack ass and pointy little breasts of a man made grotesque by years of
dissipation. The intercourse scene is done under bright lamps, without any sort of soft focus or light-jazz background score to
lighten the atmosphere of clinical detachment.
      What the sad blond submissive boy doesn't know is that the dissipated old specimen had secretly palmed an old-fashioned
one-sharp-sided razor blade when he'd gone into his burgundy-tiled bathroom to gargle with cinnamon mouthwash and dab Calvin
Klein-brand Pheromonic Musk on his flabby pulse-points, and as he hunches animalistically over the boy, he's holding the
business end of the blade right up next to the sad boy's anus as he takes his pleasure, so that the blade's sharp side slices into both
condom and erect phallus on each outthrust, the hideous old specimen unmindful of the blood and whatever pain's involved in the
phallic slicing as, still hunched and thrusting, he peels the slit condom off like the skin of a sausage. The young male prostitute,
hunched submissively, feels the condom-peel and then the blood and starts struggling like a condemned man, trying to get the
condomless bleeding flabby old specimen out and off of him. But the boy's thin and delicate, and the old man has no trouble
holding him down with his soft slack flabby weight until he's grimaced and grunted and taken his pleasure to its end. It's
apparently an explicit-homosexual-sex-scene convention that whoever takes the submissive hunched position keeps his face
turned away from the camera while the dominant partner's phallus is inside him, and Himself honors this convention, though a
self-conscious footnote subtitled along the bottom of the screen rather irritatingly points out that the scene is honoring a
convention. The prostitute turns his agonized face around to the camera only after the depraved older homosexual has removed his
bloody and deflating post-pleasure phallus, brings his blond-browed face around to his left to face the audience in a mute howl as
he collapses onto his delicate chest with his arms out on the satin sheets and his violated bum hiked high in the air, revealing now
at the crease of his bum and upper hamstring a vivid purple splotch, more vivid than any bruise and with eight spidery tentacles
radiating from it that are, the older man's horrified thought-bubble reveals, the unmistakable eight-legged-vivid-contusion-blotch
sign of Kaposi's Sarcoma, that most universal symptom of It, and the boy is sobbing that the depraved old homosexual has made
him -- the prostitute -- a murderer, the boy's racking sobs making the hiked bum waggle in front of the old specimen's horrified
face as the boy sobs into the chartreuse satin and shrieks 'Murderer! Murderer!' over and over, so that almost a third oí
Accomplice!'s total length is devoted to the racked repetition of this word -- way, way longer than is needed for the audience to
absorb the twist and all its possible implications and meanings. This was just the sort of issue Mario and I argued about. As I see
it, even though the cartridge's end has both characters emoting out of every pore, Accomplice!'$ essential project remains abstract
and self-reflexive; we end up feeling and thinking not about the characters but about the cartridge itself. By the time the final
repetitive image darkens to a silhouette and the credits roll against it and the old man's face stops spasming in horror and the boy
shuts up, the cartridge's real tension becomes the question: Did Himself subject us to 500 seconds of the repeated cry 'Murderer!'
      for some reason, i.e. is the puzzlement and then boredom and then impatience and then excruciation and then near-rage
aroused in the film's audience by the static repetitive final 1/3 of the film aroused for some theoretical-aesthetic end, or is Himself
simply an amazingly shitty editor of his own stuff?
      It was only after Himself's death that critics and theorists started to treat this question as potentially important. A woman at U.
Cal-Irvine had earned tenure with an essay arguing that the reason-versus-no-reason debate about what was unentertaining in
Himself's work illuminated the central conundra of millennial après-garde film, most of which, in the teleputer age of home-only
entertainment, involved the question why so much aesthetically ambitious film was so boring and why so much shitty reductive
commercial entertainment was so much fun. The essay was turgid to the point of being unreadable, besides using reference as a
verb and pluralizing conundrum as conundra.379369
      From my horizontal position on the bedroom floor I could use the TP's remote to do everything but actually remove and insert
cartridges into the drive's dock. The room's window was now a translucent clot of snow and steam. InterLace's Spontaneous
Disseminations for New New England were all about weather. With our subscription system, E.T.A. got numerous large-market
Spontaneous tracks. Each track took a slightly different angle on the weather. Each track had a slightly different focus. Remote
reports from Boston's North and South shores, Providence, New Haven, and Hartford-Springfield served to establish a consensus
that a terrific amount of snow had fallen and was continuing to fall and blow around and pile up. Cars were shown abandoned at
hasty angles, and we got to see the universal white VW-Bug-shape of snow-buried cars. Black-helmeted gangs of adolescents on
snowmobiles were shown prowling New Haven's streets, clearly up to no good. Pedestrians were shown bent over and
floundering; remote-report journalists were shown trying to flounder over to them to get their thoughts and reflections. One
floundering reporter in Quincy on the South Shore abruptly disappeared from view except for a hand with a microphone
protruding bravely from some sort of sinkhole of snow; the bent backs of technicians were then shown floundering away from the
remote camera to his aid. People with snow blowers stood in their own little blizzards. A pedestrian was filmed doing a
spectacular pratfall. Cars at all angles in streets were shown with their tires spinning, shuddering in stasis. One track kept cutting
back to a man endlessly trying to brush off a windshield that immediately whitened again behind each brushstroke. A bus sat with
its snout in a monster-sized drift. ATHSCME fans atop the wall north of Ti-conderoga NNY were shown making horizontal
cyclones of snow in the air. Rouged somber women in InterLace studios concurred that this was the worst blizzard to hit the
region since B.S. 1998 and the second-worst since B.S. 1993. A man in a wheelchair was shown staring stonily at a two-meter
drift across the ramp outside the State House. Satellite maps of east-central O.N.A.N. showed a white formation that was spiralled
and shaggy and seemed to have what looked like claws. It was not a Nor'easter. A hot moist ridge from the Gulf of Mexico and an
Arctic cold front had collided over the Concavity. The storm's satellite photo was superimposed on schemata of the '98 ass-kicker
and shown to be just about identical. An unwelcome old acquaintance was back, a striking woman with black bangs and vivid
lipstick said, smiling somberly. Another track iterated: this was not a Nor'easter. It might have been better to say 'smiling
mirthlessly.' The flat glazed eyes of the man brushing impotently at his windshield seemed to represent an important visual image;
different tracks kept returning to his face. He refused to acknowledge journalists or requests for thoughts. His was the creepy
businesslike face of someone carefully picking up glass in the road after an accident in which his decapitated wife's been impaled
on the steering wheel. Another track's anchor was a beautiful black woman with purple lipstick and what looked like a very tall
crew cut. Reports of snow came in from all directions. After a while I stopped keeping track of the number of times the word
snow was repeated. All synonyms for snowstorm were rapidly exhausted. Helmetless thrill-seekers on snowmobiles were doing
doughnuts in Copley Square downtown. Homeless men hunched nearly drift-covered in doorways, readying snorkels of rolled-up
newspaper. Jim Troeltsch, now apparently a resident of B-204, had liked to do a pretty funny impression of an InterLace
anchorwoman having an orgasm. One of the thrill-seekers' snowmobiles spun out of control and plunged into a drift, and the
remote camera stayed on the drift for several moments, but nothing emerged. Connecticut's National Guard Reserve had been
ordered to assemble but had not assembled because travel in Connecticut was impossible. Three men in uniforms and gray
helmets chased two men in white helmets, all on snowmobiles, for reasons an on-site journalist described as not yet emergent.
Remote-site journalists used such words as emergent, individual, alleged, utilize, and developing. But all this impersonal diction
was preceded by the anchorperson's first name, as if the report were part of an intimate conversation. An InterLace delivery-boy
was shown delivering recorded cartridges on a snowmobile and was described as plucky. Otis P. Lord had undergone a procedure
for the removal of the Hitachi monitor on Thursday, LaMont Chu had said. I had never once ridden a snowmobile, skied, or
skated: E.T.A. discouraged them. DeLint described winter sports as practically getting down on one knee and begging for an
injury. The snowmobiles on the viewer all made sounds like little chain-saws that were extra pugnacious to compensate for being
so little. There was a poignant shot of a stuck plow in Northampton. 'Individuals who are not with emergency reasons to travel'
(sic) were being officially discouraged from travelling by a state trooper in a hat with a chinstrap. A Brockton man in a Lands' End
parka took a fall too burlesque to have been unstaged.
      I could barely recall the '98 blizzard. The Academy had been open for only a few months. I remember the edges of the shaved
hilltop were still square and steep and striped in sedimentary layers, final construction delayed by some nasty piece of litigation
from the VA hospital below. The storm came barrelling in southeast from Canada in March. Dwight Flechette and Orin and the
other players had had to be led to the Lung roped together, single file, Schtitt in the lead carrying a highway flare. A couple photos
hung in C.T.'s waiting room. The last boy along the rope disappeared into a forlorn gray whirl. The Lung's new bubble had had to
be taken down and fixed when snow-weight stove it in on one side. The T stopped running. I remember some of the younger
players had cried and sworn up and down that the blizzard wasn't their fault. For days snow churned steadily out of a graphite sky.
Himself had sat in a spindle-backed chair, at the same living-room window C.T. now uses for advanced worry, and aimed a series
of nondigital cameras at the mounting snow. After years in which his consuming obsession was the establishment of E.T.A., Orin
said, Himself had started in with the film-obsession almost immediately after the Academy was up and running. Orin has said the
Moms had assumed the film thing was a passing obsession. Himself had seemed interested mostly in the lenses and rasters380370
at first, and in the consequences of their modification. He sat in that chair throughout the whole storm, sipping brandy from a one-
handed snifter, his long legs not quite covered by a plaid blanket. His legs had seemed to me almost endlessly long back then. He
always seemed to be right on the edge of coming down with something. His record up until then indicated that he remained
obsessed with something until he became successful at it, then transferred his obsession to something else. From military optics to
annular optics to entrepreneurial optics to tennis-pedagogy to film. In the chair during the blizzard he'd had beside him several
different types of camera and a large leather case. The inside of the case was striated with lenses down both sides. He used to let
Mario and me put different lenses in our eyes and squint to hold them, imitating Schtitt.
      One way of looking at the film-obsession's endurance is that Himself was never really successful or accomplished at
filmmaking. This was something else on which Mario and I had agreed to disagree.
      It took almost a year to complete the move from Weston to E.T.A. The Moms had attachments in Weston and she drew things
out. I was pretty small. I lay flat on my back on our room's carpet and tried to recall details of our home in Weston, twidgeling the
TP's remote with my thumb. I do not have Mario's head for remembered detail. One dissemination-track simply panned the metro-
Boston sky and horizons from atop the Hancock tower. On the FM band, WYYY was apparently doing its weather-report via
mimesis, broadcasting raw static while the student staff doubtless did bongs in celebration of the storm and then went up sliding
around the Union's cerebral rooftop. The Hancock camera's pan included the sinciput of the M.I.T. Union, its roof's convolutions
filling with snow ahead of the rest of it, creepy filigrees of white against the roof's deep gray.
      Our subdorm room's only carpet was an oversized corruption of the carpet page from the Lindisfarne Gospels in which you
had to look very closely to make out the tiny pornographic scenes in the Byzantine weave surrounding the cross. I'd acquired the
carpet years ago during a period of intense interest in Byzantine pornography inspired by what I'd seen as a titillating reference in
the O.E.D. I too had moved serially between obsessions, as a child. I adjusted my angle on the carpet. I was trying to align myself
along some sort of grain in the world I could barely feel, since Pemulis and I stopped. Meaning the grain, not the world. I realized
I could not distinguish my own visual memories of the Weston house from my memories of hearing Mario's detailed reports of his
memories. I remember a late-Victorian three-level on a low quiet street of elms, hyperfertilized lawns, tall homes with oval
windows and screen porches. One of the street's homes had a pineapple finial. Only the street itself was low; the lots were humped
up high and the houses so tall the broad street seemed nevertheless constricted, a sort of affluence-flanked defile. It seemed always
to be summer or spring. I could remember the Moms's voice high overhead at a screen-porch door, calling us in as dusk drifted
down and leaded fanlights began to light up at homes' doors in some sort of linear sync. Either our driveway or another driveway
flanked with whitewashed stones the shapes of beads or drops. The Moms's intricate garden in a backyard enclosed by a
fencework of trees. Himself on the screen porch, stirring a gin and tonic with his finger. The Moms's dog S. Johnson, not yet
neutered, confined by psychosis in a sort of large fenced pen abutting the garage, running around and around the pen when
thunder sounded. The smell of Noxzema: Himself behind Orin in the upstairs bathroom, towering over and down, teaching Orin to
shave against the grain, upward. I remember S. Johnson leaping up on his hind legs and sort of playing the fence with his paws as
Mario approached the pen: the rattling chain-link's pitch. The circle of earth worn bare by S.J.'s orbit in the pen when thunder
sounded or planes crossed overhead. Himself sat low in chairs and could cross his legs and still have both feet flat on the floor.
He'd hold his chin in his hand while he looked at you. My memories of Weston seemed like tableaux. They seemed more like
snapshots than films. A weird isolated memory of summertime gnats knitting the air above the shaggy animal-head of a neighbor's
topiary hedge. Our own round shrubs trimmed flat as tabletops by the Moms. More horizontals. The chatter of hedge-clippers,
their power-cords bright orange. I had to swallow spit with almost every breath. I remembered climbing with a dawdler's heavy
tread the cement steps up from the street to a gambrel-roofed late-Victorian whose narrow height from the steps gave it the
distended look of thick liquid hanging: gingerbread eaves, undulate shingles of weathered red, zinc gutters the Moms's graduate
students came and kept clean. A blue star in the front window and the words BLOCK MOTHER, which had always suggested
either a rectangular woman or some type of football-crowd cheer. The inside cool and dim and a smell of Lemon Pledge. I had no
visual memories of my mother without white hair; all that varied was the length. A touch-tone phone, with a cord running into the
wall, on a horizontal surface in a recessed alcove near the front door. Cork floors and pre-mounted shelving of woody-smelling
wood. The chilling framed print of Lang directing Metropolis in 1924.381371 A hulking black chest with strap-hinges of brass. A
few of Himself's old heavy tennis trophies as bookends on the mounted shelving. An étagère filled with old-fashioned magnetic
videos in bright adverting boxes, a cluster of blue-and-white delfts on the étagère's top shelf that had dwindled as one figurine
after another got knocked off by Mario, stumbling or shoved. The blue-white chairs with the protective plastic that made your legs
sweat. A divan done in some sort of burlapesque Iranian wool dyed to the color of sand mixed with ash -- this may have been a
neighbor's divan. Some cigarette burns in the fabric of the divan's arms. Books, videotapes, kitchen's cans -- all alphabetized.
Everything painfully clean. Several spindle-backed captain's chairs in contrasting fruit-woods. A surreal memory of a steamed
lavatory mirror with a knife sticking out of the pane. A massive stereo television console of whose gray-green eye I was afraid
when the television was off. Some of the memories have to be confabulated or dreamed -- the Moms would never have had a
divan with burns in it.
     A picture window east, the direction of Boston, with claret-colored figures and a blue sun all suspended in a web of lead. The
candy-colored summer sunrise through that window as I watched television in the A.M.
     The tall thin quiet man, Himself, with his razor-burn and bent glasses and chinos too short, whose neck was slender and
shoulders sloped, who slumped in candied east-window sunlight with his tailbone supported by windowsills, meekly stirring a
glass of something with his finger while the Moms stood there telling him she'd long-since abandoned any reasonable hope that he
could hear what she was telling him -- this silent figure, of whom I still remember mostly endless legs and the smell of Noxzema
shave-cream, seems, still, impossible to reconcile with the sensibility of something like Accomplice! It was impossible to imagine
Himself conceiving of sodomy and razors, no matter how theoretically. I lay there and could almost remember Orin telling me
something almost moving that Himself had once told him. Something to do with Accomplice! The memory hung somewhere just
out of conscious reach, and its tip-of-the-tongue inaccessibility felt too much like the preface to another attack. I accepted it: I
could not remember.
     Off down the Weston street a church with an announcement-board in the grass out front -- white plastic letters on a slotted
black surface -- and at least once Mario and I stood watching a goatish man change the letters and thus the announcement. One of
the first occasions where I remember reading something involved the announcement-board announcing:
     LIFE IS LIKE TENNIS THOSE WHO SERVE BEST USUALLY WIN
     with the letters all spaced far out like that. A big fresh-cement-colored church, liberal with glass, denomination not recalled,
but built in what was, in the B.S. 8O's probably, modern -- a parabolic poured-concrete shape billowed and peaked like a cresting
wave. A suggestion in it of some paranormal wind somewhere that could make concrete billow and pop like a tucking sail.
     Our own subdorm room now has three of those old Weston captain's chairs whose backs dent your spine if you don't fit it
carefully between two spindles. We have an unused wicker basket for laundry on which are stacked some corduroy spectation-
pillows. Floor plans for Hagia Sophia and S. Simeon at Qal'at Si'man on the wall over my bed, the really prurient part of
Consummation of the Levirates over the chairs, also from the old interest in Byzantinalia. Something about the stiff and
dismantled quality of maniera greca porn: people broken into pieces and trying to join, etc. At the foot of Mario's bed a surplus-
store trunk for his own film equipment and a canvas director's chair where he's always laid out his police lock, lead weights, and
vest for the night. A fiberboard stand for the compact TP and viewer, and a stenographer's chair for using the TP to type. Five total
chairs in a room where no one ever sits in a chair. As in all the subdorm rooms and hallways, a guilloche ran around our walls half
a meter from the ceiling. New E.T.A.s always drove themselves bats counting their room's guilloche's interwoven circles. Our
room had 811 and truncated bits of -12 and -13, two left halves stuck like open parentheses up in the southwest corner. Between
the ages of eleven and thirteen I'd had a plaster knock-off of a lewd Constantine frieze, the emperor with a hyperemic organ and
an impure expression, hung by two hooks from the guilloche's lower border. Now I couldn't for the life of me recall what I'd done
with the frieze, or which Byzantine seraglio the original had decorated. There had been a time when data like these were instantly
available.
     The Weston living room had had an early version of Himself's full-spectrum cove lighting and at one end an elevated
fieldstone fireplace with a big copper hood that made a wonderful ear-splitting drum-head for wooden spoons, with memories of
some foreign adult I didn't recognize grinding at her temples and pleading Do Stop. The Moms's jungle of Green Babies had
spread out into the room from another corner, the plants' pots on stands of various heights, hanging in nests of twine suspended
from clamps, arrayed at eye-height from projecting trellises of white-painted iron, all in the otherworldly glow of a white-hooded
tube of ultraviolet light hung with thin chains from the ceiling. Mario can recall violet-lit laces of ferns and the wet meaty gloss of
rubber-tree leaves.
     And a coffee table of green-shot black marble, too heavy to move, on whose corner Mario knocked out a tooth after what
Orin swore up and down was an accidental shove.
     Mrs. Clarke's varicotic calves at the stove. The way her mouth overhead would disappear when the Moms reorganized
something in the kitchen. My eating mold and the Moms's being very upset that I'd eaten it -- this memory was of Orin's telling
the story; I had no childhood memory of eating fungus.
     My trusty NASA glass still rested on my chest, rising when my rib cage rose. When I looked down my own length, the glass's
round mouth was a narrow slot. This was because of my optical perspective. There was a concise term for optical perspective that
I again could not quite make resolve.
      What made it hard really to recall our old house's living room was that so many of its appointments were now in the living
room of the Headmaster's House, the same and yet altered, and by more than rearrangement. The onyx coffee table Mario had
fallen against (specular is what refers to optical perspective; it came to me after I stopped trying to recall it) now supported
compact disks and tennis magazines and a cello-shaped vase of dried eucalyptus, and the red-steel stand for the family Xmas tree,
when in season. The table had been a wedding gift from Himself's mother, who died of emphysema shortly before Mario's
surprise birth. Orin reports she'd looked like an embalmed poodle, all neck-tendons and tight white curls and eyes that were all
pupil. The Moms's birth-mother had died in Quebec of an infarction when she -- the Moms -- was eight, her father during her
sophomore year at McGill under circumstances none of us knew. The hydrant-sized Mrs. Tavis was still alive and somewhere in
Alberta, the original L'Islet potato farm now part of the Great Concavity and forever lost.
      Orin and Bain et al. at Family Trivia during that terrible first year's blizzard, Orin imitating the Moms's high breathy 'My son
ate this! God, please!,' never tiring of it.
      Orin had liked also to recreate for us the spooky kyphotic hunch of Himself's mother, in her wheelchair, beckoning him closer
with a claw, the way she seemed always caved in over and around her chest as if she'd been speared there. An air of deep
dehydration had hung about her, he said, as if she osmosized moisture from whoever came near. She spent her last few years
living in the Marlboro St. brownstone they'd had before Mario and I were born, tended by a gerontologic nurse Orin said always
wore the expression of every post-office mug shot you've ever seen. When the nurse was off, a small silver bell was apparently
hung from an arm of the old lady's wheelchair, to be rung when she could not breathe. A cheery silver tinkle announcing
asphyxiation upstairs. Mrs. Clarke would still pale whenever Mario asked about her.
      It's become easier to see the climacteric changes in the Moms's own body since she began confining herself more and more to
the Headmaster's House. This occurred after Himself's funeral, but in stages -- the gradual withdrawal and reluctance to leave the
grounds, and the signs of aging. It is hard to notice what you see every day. None of the physical changes has been dramatic --
her nerved-up dancer's legs becoming hard, stringy, a shrinking of the hips and a girdly thickening at the waist. Her face settles a
little lower on her skull than it did four years ago, with a slight bunching under the chin and an emerging potential for something
pruny happening around her mouth, in time, I thought I could see.
      The word that best connoted why the glass's mouth looked slotty was probably foreshortened.
      The Q.R.S. Infantilist would no doubt join the old grief-therapist in asking how watching one's Moms begin to age makes you
feel inside. Questions like these become almost koans: you have to lie when the truth is Nothing At All, since this appears as a
textbook lie under the therapeutic model. The brutal questions are the ones that force you to lie.
      Either our old kitchen or a neighbor's kitchen panelled with walnut and hung with copper pâté-molds and herbal sprigs. An
unidentified woman -- not Avril or Mrs. Clarke -- standing in that kitchen in snug cherry slacks, loafers over bare feet, waggling
a mixing spoon, laughing at something, a long-tailed comet of flour on her cheek.
      It occurred to me then with some force that I didn't want to play this afternoon, even if some sort of indoor exhibition-meet
came off. Not even neutral, I realized. I would on the whole have preferred not to play. What Schtitt might have to say to that, v.
what Lyle would say. I was unable to stay with the thought long enough to imagine Himself's response to my refusal to play, if
any.
      But this was the man who made Accomplice!, whose sensibility informed the hetero-hardcore Möbius Strips and the sado-
periodontal Fun with Teeth and several other projects that were just thoroughgoingly nasty and sick.
      Then it occurred to me that I could walk outside and contrive to take a spill, or squeeze out the window on the rear staircase
of HmH and fall several meters to the steep embankment below, being sure to land on the bad ankle and hurt it, so I'd not have to
play. That I could carefully plan out a fall from the courts' observation transom or the spectators' gallery of whatever club C.T. and
the Moms sent us to to help raise funds, and fall so carefully badly I'd take out all the ankle's ligaments and never play again.
Never have to, never get to. I could be the faultless victim of a freak accident and be knocked from the game while still on the
ascendant. Becoming the object of compassionate sorrow rather than disappointed sorrow.
      I couldn't stay with this fantastic line of thought long enough to parse out whose disappointment I was willing to cripple
myself to avoid (or forgo).
      And then out of nowhere it returned to me, the moving thing Himself had said to Orin. This was concerning 'adult' films,
which from what I've seen are too downright sad to be truly nasty, or even really entertainment, though the adjective adult is kind
of a misnomer.
      Orin had told me that once he and Smothergill, Flechette, and I think Penn's older brother had gotten hold of a magnetic video
of some old hardcore X-film -- The Green Door or Deep Throat, one of those old chestnuts of cellulite and jism. There were
excited plans to convene in V.R.3 and watch the thing in secret after Lights Out. The Viewing Rooms at that point had broadcast
televisions and magnetic VCR-devices, instructional mag-vids from Galloway and Braden, etc. Orin and co. were all around
fifteen at the time, bombed by their own glands -- they were pop-eyed at the prospect of genuine porn. There were rules about
videos' suitability for viewing in the Honor Code, but Himself was not noted for his discipline, and Schtitt didn't yet have deLint
-- the first generation of E.T.A.s did pretty much as they pleased off-court, as long as they were discreet.
      Nevertheless, word about this 'adult' film got around, and somebody -- probably Mary Esther Thode's sister Ruth, then a
senior and insufferable -- ratted the boys' viewing-plans out to Schtitt, who took the matter to Himself. Orin said he was the only
one Himself called into the Headmaster's office, which in that era had only one door, which Himself asked Orin to close. Orin
recalled seeing none of the unease that always accompanied Himself's attempts at stern discipline. Instead Himself invited Orin to
sit and gave him a lemon soda and stood facing him, leaning back slightly so that the front edge of his desk supported him at the
tailbone. Himself took his glasses off and massaged his closed eyes delicately -- almost trea-suringly, his old eyeballs -- in the
way Orin knew signified that Himself was ruminative and sad. One or two soft interrogatives brought the whole affair out in the
open. You could never lie to Himself; somehow you just never had the heart. Whereas Orin made almost an Olympic sport of
lying to the Moms. Anyway, Orin quickly confessed to everything.
      What Himself said then moved him, Orin told me. Himself told Orin he wasn't going to forbid them to watch the thing if they
really wanted to. But just please to keep it discreet, just Bain and Smothergill and Orin's immediate circle, nobody younger, and
nobody whose parents might hear about it, and for God's sake don't let your mother get wind. But that Orin was old enough to
make his own entertainment-decisions, and if he decided he wanted to watch the thing.. . . And so on.
      But Himself said that if Orin wanted his personal, fatherly as opposed to headmasterly, take on it, then he, Orin's father --
though he wouldn't forbid it -- would rather Orin didn't watch a hard-porn film yet. He said this with such reticent earnestness
there was no way Orin couldn't ask him how come. Himself felt his jaw and pushed his glasses up several times and shrugged and
finally said he supposed he was afraid of the film giving Orin the wrong idea about having sex. He said he'd personally prefer that
Orin wait until he'd found someone he loved enough to want to have sex with and had had sex with this person, that he'd wait until
he'd experienced for himself what a profound and really quite moving thing sex could be, before he watched a film where sex was
presented as nothing more than organs going in and out of other organs, emotionless, terribly lonely. He said he supposed he was
afraid that something like The Green Door would give Orin an impoverished, lonely idea of sexuality.
      What poor old O. claimed to have found so moving was Himself's assumption that O. was still cherry. What moved me to feel
sorry for Orin was that it seemed pretty obvious that that had nothing to do with what Himself was trying to talk about. It was the
most open I'd ever heard of Himself being with anybody, and it seemed terribly sad to me, somehow, that he'd wasted it on Orin.
I'd never once had a conversation nearly that open or intimate with Himself. My most intimate memory of Himself was the
scratchiness of his jaw and the smell of his neck when I fell asleep at supper and he carried me upstairs to bed. His neck was thin
but had a good meaty warm smell; I now for some reason associate it with the odor of Coach Schtitt's pipe.
      I tried briefly to picture Ortho Stice hoisting his bunk up and bolting it to the ceiling without waking Coyle. Our room's door
remained ajar from Mario's exit with Coyle to find someone with a master key. Yardguard and Wagenknecht's heads popped in
briefly and urged me to come have a look at The Darkness's ruined map and withdrew when they got no response. The second
floor was pretty quiet; most of them were still dawdling at breakfast, awaiting some announcement on the weather and Québecois
squads. Snow hit the windows with a gritty sound. The angle of the wind had made a kind of whistle out of one corner of the
subdorm building, and the whistling came and went.
      Then I heard John Wayne's stride in the hall outside, light and even and easy on floors, the stride of a guy with stellar calf-
development. I heard his low sigh. Then, though the door was too far behind me to see, for a moment or two I could somehow tell
for sure that John Wayne's head was inside the open door. I could feel it clearly, almost painfully. He was looking down at me
lying there on the Lindisfarne carpet. There was none of the gathering tension of a person deciding whether or not to speak. I
could feel my throat's equipment move when I swallowed. John Wayne and I never had much to say to one another. There wasn't
even hostility between us. He ate dinner with us at HmH every so often because he and the Moms were tight. The Moms made
little attempt to disguise her attachment to Wayne. Now his breathing behind me was light and very even. No waste, complete
utilization of each breath.382372
      Of us three, it was Mario who had spent the most time with Himself, sometimes travelling with him for location-work. I had
no idea what they spoke about together, or how openly. None of us had ever pressed Mario to say much about it. It occurred to me
to wonder why this was so.
      I decided to get up but then did not in fact get up. Orin was convinced that Himself was a virgin when he met the Moms in his
late thirties. I find this pretty hard to believe. Orin will also grant that there's no doubt Himself was faithful to the Moms right up
to the end, that his attachment to Orin's fiancee was not sexual. I had a sudden and lucid vision of the Moms and John Wayne
locked in a sexual embrace of some kind. John Wayne had been involved with the Moms sexually since roughly the second month
after his arrival. They were both expatriates. I hadn't yet been able to identify a strong feeling one way or the other about the
liaison, nor about Wayne himself, except for admiring his talent and total focus. I did not know whether Mario knew of the
liaison, to say nothing of poor C.T.
      It was impossible for me to imagine Himself and the Moms being explicitly sexual together. I bet most children have this
difficulty where their parents are concerned. Sex between the Moms and C.T. I imagined as both frenetic and weary, with a kind
of doomed timeless Faulknerian feel to it. I imagined the Moms's eyes open and staring blankly at the ceiling the whole time. I
imagined C.T. never once shutting up, talking around and around whatever was taking place between them. My coccyx had gone
numb from the pressure of the floor through the thin carpet. Bain, graduate students, grammatical colleagues, Japanese fight-
choreographers, the hairy-shouldered Ken N. Johnson, the Islamic M.D. Himself had found so especially torturing -- these
encounters were imaginable but somehow generic, mostly a matter of athleticism and flexibility, different configurations of limbs,
the mood one more of cooperation than complicity or passion. I tended to imagine the Moms staring expressionlessly at ceilings
throughout. The complicit passion would have come after, probably, with her need to be sure the encounter was hidden. Peterson-
allusions notwithstanding, I wondered about some hazy connection between this passion for hiddenness and the fact that Himself
had made so many films titled Cage, and that the amateur player he became so attached to was the veiled girl, Orin's love. I
wondered whether it was possible to lie supine and throw up without aspirating vomit or choking. The plumed spout of a whale.
The tableau of John Wayne and my mother in my imagination was not very erotic. The image was complete and sharply focused
but seemed stilted, as if composed. She reclines against four pillows, at an angle between seated and supine, staring upward,
motionless and pale. Wayne, slim and brown-limbed, smoothly muscled, also completely motionless, lies over her, his untanned
bottom in the air, his blank narrow face between her breasts, his eyes unblinking and his thin tongue outthrust like a stunned
lizard's. They stay just like that.
      She wasn't dumb -- she figured it was likely that they'd let her loose just to see where she'd go.
      She went home. She went to the House. She got one of the last trains before they closed the T, probably. It took forever to get
from Comm. Ave. down to Enfield Marine in her clogs and skirt in the snow, and melt soaked the veil and made it adhere to the
features below. She'd been close to removing the veil to get away from the outside-linebacker of a federal lady anyway. She
looked now just like a linen-pale version of what she really looked like. But there was no one about in the snow. She figured if she
could speak with Pat M. Pat M. might be prevailed upon to put her in quarantine with Clenette and Yolanda, not let in no law. She
could tell Pat about the wheelchairs, try to convince her to dismantle the ramp. The visibility was so bad she didn't see it til she
cleared the Shed, the Middlesex County Sheriff's car, fiercely snow-tired, lights going bluely, parked idling in the roadlet outside
the ramp, wipers on Occasional, a uniform at the wheel absently feeling his face.