      Some of the more marginal players start in as early as maybe twelve, I'm sorry to say, particularly 'drines before matches and
then enkephaline2626 after, which can generate a whole vicious circle of individual neurochemis-try; but I myself, having taken
certain vows early on concerning fathers and differences, didn't even get downwind of my first bit of Bob Hope2727 until fifteen,
more like nearly sixteen, when Bridget Boone, in whose room a lot of the 16 and Unders used to congregate before lights-out,
invited me to consider a couple of late-night bongs, as a kind of psychodysleptic Sominex, to help me sleep, perhaps, finally, all
the way through a really unpleasant dream that had been recurring nightly and waking me up in medias for weeks and was
beginning to grind me down and to cause some slight deterioration in performance and rank. Low-grade synthetic Bob or not, the
bongs worked like a charm.
      In this dream, which every now and then still recurs, I am standing publicly at the baseline of a gargantuan tennis court. I'm in
a competitive match, clearly: there are spectators, officials. The court is about the size of a football field, though, maybe, it seems.
It's hard to tell. But mainly the court's complex. The lines that bound and define play are on this court as complex and convolved
as a sculpture of string. There are lines going every which way, and they run oblique or meet and form relationships and boxes
and rivers and tributaries and systems inside systems: lines, corners, alleys, and angles deliquesce into a blur at the horizon of the
distant net. I stand there tentatively. The whole thing is almost too involved to try to take in all at once. It's simply huge. And it's
public. A silent crowd resolves itself at what may be the court's periphery, dressed in summer's citrus colors, motionless and
highly attentive. A battalion of linesmen stand blandly alert in their blazers and safari hats, hands folded over their slacks' flies.
High overhead, near what might be a net-post, the umpire, blue-blazered, wired for amplification in his tall high-chair, whispers
Play. The crowd is a tableau, motionless and attentive. I twirl my stick in my hand and bounce a fresh yellow ball and try to figure
out where in all that mess of lines I'm supposed to direct service. I can make out in the stands stage-left the white sun-umbrella of
the Moms; her height raises the white umbrella above her neighbors; she sits in her small circle of shadow, hair white and legs
crossed and a delicate fist upraised and tight in total unconditional support.
      The umpire whispers Please Play.
      We sort of play. But it's all hypothetical, somehow. Even the 'we' is theory: I never get quite to see the distant opponent, for
all the apparatus of the game.