      'We've lost a couple already,' Steeply admitted. 'During the testing. Not just volunteers. Some idiot intern in Data Analysis
yielded to temptation and wanted to see what all the fuss was for and got hold of Flatto's I/O lab's clearance card and went in and
viewed.'
      'From among the many Read-Only copies of your stock of the Entertainment.'
      'No great tragic loss in itself -- lose some idiot-child intern. C'est la guerre. The real loss was that his supervisor tried to go in
after him and pull him out. Our head of Data Analysis himself.'
      'Hoyne, Henri or pronounce "Henry," middle initial of F., with the wife, with his adult diabetes he controls.'
      'Did control. Twenty-year man, Hank. Damn good man. He was a friend. He's in four-point restraints now. Nourishment
through a tube. No desire or even basic survival-type will for anything other than more viewing.'
      'Of it.'
      'I tried to visit.'
      'With your sleeveless skirt and different breasts.'
      'I couldn't even stand to be in the same room, see him like that. Begging for just even a few seconds -- a trailer, a snatch of
soundtrack, anything. His eyes wobbling around like some drug-addicted newborn. Break your fucking heart. In the next bed,
restrained, the idiot intern: this was the sort of undisciplined selfish child you like to talk about, Rémy. But Hank Hoyne was no
child. I watched this man put down all sugar and treats when he first got diagnosed. Just put them down and walked away. Not
even a whimper or backward glance.'
      'A will of steel.'
      'An American adult of exemplary self-control and discretion.'
      'The samizdat is not to be played crazily about with, so. We too have lost persons. It is serious.'
      The legs of the constellation of Perseus were amputated by the earth's horizon. Perseus, he wore the hat of a jongleur or
pantalone. Hercules' head, this head was square. It was not long to dawn also because at 32° N Pollux and Castor became visible.
They were over Marathe's left shoulder, as if giants were looking over his shoulder, one of Castor's legs inbent in a feminine
manner.
     'But do you ever consider?' Steeply lit another cigarette.
     'Fantasize, you are meaning.'
     'If it's that consuming. If it somehow addresses desires that total,' Steeply said. 'Not even sure I can imagine what desires that
total and utter even are.' Up and down upon the toes. Turning above the waist only to look back at Marathe. 'You ever think of
what it'd be like, speculate?'
     'Us, we think of what ends the Entertainment may serve. We find its efficacy tempting. You and we are tempted in different
ways.' Marathe could identify no other Southwest U.S.A. constellations except the Big Dipper, which at this latitude appeared
attached to the Great Bear to form something resembling the 'Big Bucket' or the 'Great Cradle.' The chair gave small squeaks
when he shifted his weight upon it.
     Steeply said 'Well I can't say I've been tempted in the strictest sense of tempted.'
     'Perhaps we are meaning different things by this.'
     'Frankly, when I think of it I'm as much terrified as I am intrigued. Hank Hoyne is an empty shell. The iron will, the analytic
savvy. His love of a fine cigar. All gone. His world's as if it has collapsed into one small bright point. Inner world. Lost to us. You
look in his eyes and there's nothing you can recognize in them. Poor Miriam.' Steeply kneaded a bare shoulder. 'Willis, on the I/O
night-shift, came up with a phrase for their eyes. "Empty of intent." This appeared in a memo.'
     Marathe pretended to sniff. 'The temptation of the passive Reward of terminal p, this all seems complex to me. Terror seems
part of the temptation for you. Us of Quebec's cause, we have never felt this temptation for the Entertainment, or knowing. But we
respect its power. Thus, we do not fool crazily about.'
     It was not that the sky was lightening so much as that the stars' light had paled. There became a sullenness about their light.
Now, also, strange-looking U.S.A. insects whirred actively past from time to time, moving jag-gedly and making Marathe think of
many windblown sparks.