     YEAR OF THE TRIAL-SIZE DOVE BAR
     Wardine say her momma aint treat her right. Reginald he come round to my blacktop at my building where me and Delores
Epps jump double dutch and he say, Clenette, Wardine be down at my crib cry say her momma aint treat her right, and I go on
with Reginald to his building where he live at, and Wardine be sit deep far back in a closet in Reginald crib, and she be cry.
Reginald gone lift Wardine out the closet and me with him crying and I be rub on the wet all over Wardine face and Reginald be
so careful when he take off all her shirts she got on, tell Wardine to let me see. Wardine back all beat up and cut up. Big stripes of
cut all up and down Wardine back, pink stripes and around the stripes the skin like the skin on folks lips be like. Sick down in my
insides to look at it. Wardine be cry. Reginald say Wardine say her momma aint treat her right. Say her momma beat Wardine
with a hanger. Say Wardine momma man Roy Tony be want to lie down with Wardine. Be give Wardine candy and 5s. Be stand
in her way in Wardine face and he aint let her pass without he all the time touching her. Reginald say Wardine say Roy Tony at
night when Wardine momma at work he come in to the mattresses where Wardine and William and Shantell and Roy the baby
sleep at, and he stand there in the dark, high, and say quiet things at her, and breathe. Wardine momma say Wardine tempt Roy
Tony into Sin. Wardine say she say Wardine try to take away Roy Tony into Evil and Sin with her young tight self. She beat
Wardine back with hangers out the closet. My momma say Wardine momma not right in her head. My momma scared of Roy
Tony. Wardine be cry. Reginald he down and beg for War-dine tell Reginald momma how Wardine momma treat Wardine.
Reginald say he Love his Wardine. Say he Love but aint never before this time could understand why Wardine wont lie down
with him like girls do their man. Say Wardine aint never let Reginald take off her shirts until tonight she come to Reginald crib in
his building and be cry, she let Reginald take off her shirts to see how Wardine momma beat Wardine because Roy Tony.
Reginald Love his Wardine. Wardine be like to die of scared. She say no to Reginald beg. She say, if she go to Reginald momma,
then Reginald momma go to Wardine momma, then Wardine momma think Wardine be lie down with Reginald. Wardine say her
momma say Wardine let a man lie down before she sixteen and she beat Wardine to death. Reginald say he aint no way going to
let that happen to Wardine.
      Roy Tony kill Dolores Epps brother Columbus Epps at the Brighton Projects four years gone. Roy Tony on Parole. Wardine
say he show War-dine he got some thing on his ankle send radio signals to Parole that he still here in Brighton. Roy Tony cant be
leave Brighton. Roy Tony brother be Wardine father. He gone. Reginald try to hush Wardine but he can not stop Wardine cry.
Wardine look like crazy she so scared. She say she kill herself if me or Reginald tell our mommas. She say, Clenette, you my half
Sister, I am beg that you do not tell you momma on my momma and Roy Tony. Reginald tell Wardine to hush herself and lie
down quiet. He put Shedd Spread out the kitchen on Wardine cuts on her back. He run his finger with grease so careful down pink
lines of her getting beat with a hanger. Wardine say she do not feel nothing in her back ever since spring. She lie stomach on
Reginald floor and say she aint got no feeling in her skin of her back. When Reginald gone to get the water she asks me the truth,
how bad is her back look when Reginald look at it. Is she still pretty, she cry.
      I aint tell my momma on Wardine and Reginald and Wardine momma and Roy Tony. My momma scared of Roy Tony. My
momma be the lady Roy Tony kill Columbus Epps over, four years gone, in the Brighton Projects, for Love.
      But I know Reginald tell. Reginald say he gone die before Wardine momma beat Wardine again. He say he take his self up to
Roy Tony and say him to not mess with Wardine or breathe by her mattress at night. He say he take his self on down to the
playground at the Brighton Projects where Roy Tony do business and he go to Roy Tony man to man and he make Roy Tony
make it all right.
      But I think Roy Tony gone kill Reginald if Reginald go. I think Roy Tony gone kill Reginald, and then Wardine momma beat
Wardine to death with a hanger. And then nobody know except me. And I am gone have a child.