     Sure enough the Chinkette women had been strengthless and lightweight, flew aside like dolls, and their bags were indeed
treasure-heavy, hard to heft; but as Lenz cut left down the north-south alley he could hold the bags by their twine handles out
slightly before him, so their weight's momentum kind of pulled him along. The cruciform alleys through the blocks between
Central and Inman in Little Lisbon were a kind of second city. Lenz ran. His breath came easy and he could feel himself from
scalp to sole. Green and green-with-red dumpsters lined both walls and made the going narrow. He vaulted two sitting figures in
khaki sharing a can of Sterno on the alley floor. He glided through the foul air above them, untouched by it. The sounds behind
him were his footfalls' echo off dumpsters and fire-escapes' iron. His left hand ached nicely from holding both a bag's handle and
his large-print volume. A dumpster up ahead had been hitched to an E.W.D. truck and just left to sit: probably quitting time. The
Empire guys had an incredible union. In the recess of the hitch's bar a small blue light flickered and died. This was a dozen
dumpsters up ahead. Lenz slowed to a brisk walk. His topcoat had slipped slightly off one of his shoulders but he had no free hand
to fix it and wasn't going to take time to put a bag down. His left hand felt cramped. It was somewhere vague between 2224 and
2226h. The alley was dark as a pocket. A tiny crash off somewhere south down the network of alleys was actually Poor Tony
Krause rolling the steel waste-barrel that tripped up Ruth van Cleve. The tiny blue flame came on, hung still, flickered, moved,
hung there, went back out. Its glow was dark blue against the back of the huge E.W.D. truck. Empire trucks were unstoppable,
hitches were valuable but locked down with a Kryptonite device thing you needed welding stuff to cut through. From the recess of
the hitch there were small sounds. When the lighter lit again Lenz was almost on them, two boys on the hitch and two squatting
down by the hitch facing them, four of them, a fire-escape's pull-ladder distended like a tongue and hanging just above them.
None of the boys was over like twelve. They used a M. Fizzy bottle instead of a pipe, and the smell of burnt plastic hung mixed
with the sicksweet smell of overcarbonated rock. The boys were all small and slight and either black or spic, greedily hunching
over the flame; they looked ratty. Lenz kept them in peripheral view as he strode briskly by, carrying his bags, spine straight and
extruding dignified purpose. The lighter went out. The boys on the hitch eyed Lenz's bags. The squatting boys turned their heads
to look. Lenz kept them in peripheral view. None of them wore watches. One of them wore a knit cap and watched steadily. He
locked eyes with Lenz's left eye, made a gun of his thin hand, pretended to draw a slow bead. Like performing for the others. Lenz
walked by with urban dignity, like he both saw them and didn't. The smell was intense but real local, of the rock and bottle. He
had to veer out to miss the Empire truck's side mirror on its steel strut. He heard them say things as the truck's grille fell behind,
and unkind laughter, and then something called out in a minority agnate he didn't know. He heard the lighter's flint. He thought to
himself Assholes. He was looking for someplace empty and a bit more lit, to go through the bags. And cleaner than this one north-
south alley here, which smelled of ripe waste and rotting skin. He would separate the bags' valuables from the nonvaluables and
transfer the valuables to a single bag. He would fence the nonnegotiable valuables in Little Lisbon and refill the receptacle in his
medical dictionary, and buy some attractiver shoes. The alley was devroid of cats and rodents both; he did not stop to reflect why.
A rock or bit of brick courtesy of the junior crack-jockeys back there landed behind him and skittered past and rang out against
something, and someone cried out aloud, a sexless figure lying back against a maybe duffel bag or pack against a dump-ster, its
hand moving furiously in its groin and its feet pointed out into the alley and turned out like a dead body's, its shoes two different
shoes, its hair a clotted mass around its face, looking up over at Lenz going past in the faint start of light from a broader alley's
intersection ahead, chanting softly what Lenz could hear as he stepped gingerly over the rot-smelling legs as 'Pretty, pretty, pretty.'
Lenz whispered to himself 'Jesus what a lot of fucked-up ass-eating fucking losers.'