     I was going to go back up to see about Stice's defenestration, to check on Mario and change my socks and examine my
expression in the mirror for unintentional hilarity, to listen to Orin's phone-messages and then the protracted-death aria from
Tosca once or twice. There is no music for free-floating misery like Tosca.
     I was moving down the damp hall when it hit. I don't know where it came from. It was some variant of the telescopically self-
conscious panic that can be so devastating during a match. I'd never felt quite this way off-court before. It wasn't wholly
unpleasant. Unexplained panic sharpens the senses almost past enduring. Lyle had taught us this. You perceive things very
intensely. Lyle's counsel had been to turn the perception and attention on the fear itself, but he'd shown us how to do this only on-
court, in play. Everything came at too many frames per second. Everything had too many aspects. But it wasn't disorienting. The
intensity wasn't unmanageable. It was just intense and vivid. It wasn't like being high, but it was still very: lucid. The world
seemed suddenly almost edible, there for the ingesting. The thin skin of light over the baseboards' varnish. The cream of the
ceiling's acoustic tile. The deerskin-brown longitudinal grain in the rooms' doors' darker wood. The dull brass gleam of the knobs.
It was without the abstract, cognitive quality of Bob or Star. The turn-signal red of the stairwell's lit EXIT sign. Sleepy T. P.
Peterson came out of the bathroom in a dazzling plaid robe, his face and feet salmon-colored from the showers' heat, and vanished
across the hall into his room without seeing me wobbling, leaning against the cool mint wall of the hallway.
     But the panic was there too, endocrinal, paralyzing, and with an overcog-nitive, bad-trip-like element that I didn't recognize
from the very visceral on-court attacks of fear. Something like a shadow flanked the vividness and lucidity of the world. The
concentration of attention did something to it. What didn't seem fresh and unfamiliar seemed suddenly old as stone. It all
happened in the space of a few seconds. The familiarity of Academy routine took on a crushing cumulative aspect. The total
number of times I'd schlepped up the rough cement steps of the stairwell, seen my faint red reflection in the paint of the fire door,
walked the 56 steps down the hall to our room, opened the door and eased it gently back flush in the jamb to keep from waking
Mario. I reexperienced the years' total number of steps, movements, the breaths and pulses involved. Then the number of times I
would have to repeat the same processes, day after day, in all kinds of light, until I graduated and moved away and then began the
same exhausting process of exit and return in some dormitory at some tennis-power university somewhere. Maybe the worst part
of the cognitions involved the incredible volume of food I was going to have to consume over the rest of my life. Meal after meal,
plus snacks. Day after day after day. Experiencing this food in toto. Just the thought of the meat alone. One megagram? Two
megagrams? I experienced, vividly, the image of a broad cool well-lit room piled floor to ceiling with nothing but the lightly
breaded chicken fillets I was going to consume over the next sixty years. The number of fowl vivisected for a lifetime's meat. The
amount of hydrochloric acid and bilirubin and glucose and glycogen and gloconol produced and absorbed and produced in my
body. And another, dimmer room, filled with the rising mass of the excrement I'd produce, the room's double-locked steel door
gradually bowing outward with the mounting pressure.... I had to put my hand out against the wall and stand there hunched until
the worst of it passed. I watched the floor dry. Its dull shine brightened behind me in the snowlight from the east window. The
wall's baby blue was complexly filigreed with bumps and clots of paint. An unmopped glob of Kenkle's spit sat by the corner of
V.R.5's door's jamb, quivering slightly as the door rattled in its frame. There were scuffles and thumps from upstairs. It was still
snowing like hell.
     I lay on my back on the carpet of Viewing Room 5, still on the second floor, fighting the sense that I'd either never been here
before or had spent lifetimes just here. The entire room was panelled in a cool yellow shimmering material called Kevlon. The
viewer took up half the south wall and was dead and gray-green. The carpet's green was close to this color, too. The instructional
and motivational cartridges were in a large glass bookcase whose central shelves were long and whose top and bottom shelving
tapered down to almost nothing. Ovoid would convey the case's shape. I had the NASA glass with my toothbrush in it balanced on
my chest. It rose whenever I inhaled. I'd had the NASA glass since I was a little boy, and its decal of white-helmeted figures
waving authoritatively through the windows of a prototype shuttle was faded and incomplete.
     After a time, Sleepy T.P. Peterson put his wet-combed head in the door and said LaMont Chu wanted to know whether what
was happening outside qualified as a blizzard. It took over a minute of my not saying anything for him to go away. The ceiling
panels were grotesquely detailed. They seemed to come after you like some invasive E.T.A. patron backing you up against the
wall at a party. The ankle throbbed dully in the snowstorm's low pressure. I relaxed my throat and simply let the excess saliva run
post-nasally back and down. The Moms's mother had been ethnic Québecois, her father Anglo-Canadian. The term used in the
Yale Journal of Alcohol Studies for this man was binge-drinker. All my grandparents were deceased. Himself's middle name had
been Orin, his father's own father's name. The V.R.'s entertainment cartridges were arrayed on wall-length shelves of translucent
polyethylene. Their individual cases were all either clear plastic or glossy black plastic. My full name is Harold James Incandenza,
and I am 183.6 cm. tall in stocking feet. Himself designed the Academy's indirect lighting, which is ingenious and close to full-
spectrum. V.R.5 contained a large couch, four reclining chairs, a midsized recumbency, six green corduroy spectation-pillows
stacked in a corner, three end tables, and a coffee table of mylar with inlaid coasters. The overhead lighting in every E.T.A. room
came from a small carbon-graphite spotlight directed upward at a complexly alloyed reflecting plate above it. No rheostat was
required; a small joystick controlled the brightness by altering the little spot's angle of incidence to the plate. Himself's films were
arranged on the third shelf of the entertainment-case. The Moms's full name is Avril Mondragon Tavis Incandenza, Ed.D., Ph.D.
She is 197 cm. tall in flats and still came up only to Himself's ear when he straightened and stood erect. For almost a month in the
weight room, Lyle had been saying that the most advanced level of Vaipassana or 'Insight' meditation consisted in sitting in fully
awakened contemplation of one's own death. I had held Big Buddy sessions in V.R.5 throughout the month of September. The
Moms had grown up without a middle name. The etymology of the term blizzard is essentially unknown. The full-spectrum
lighting system had been a labor of love from Himself to the Moms, who'd agreed to leave Brandeis and head up the Academy's
academics and had an ethnic Canadian's horror of fluorescent light; but by the time the system had been installed and de-bugged,
the gestalt of the Moms's lumiphobia had extended to all overhead lighting, and she never used her office's spot-and-plate system.
     Petropolis Kahn put his large shaggy head in and asked what was all this brooha upstairs, the thumps and cryings-out. He
asked whether I was going to breakfast. The scuttlebutt on breakfast was sausage-analog and OJ with palpable pulp, he said. I
closed my eyes and recalled that I'd known Petropolis Kahn for three years and three months. Kahn went away. I could feel his
head's withdrawal from the doorway: a very slight suction in the room's air. I needed to fart but had not so far farted. The atomic
weight of carbon is 12.01 and change. A small and carefully monitored game of Eschaton slated for the mid-A.M., with
(according to rumor) Pemulis himself as game-master, was certain to be snowed out. It had begun to occur to me, driving back
from Natick on Tuesday, that if it came down to a choice between continuing to play competitive tennis and continuing to be able
to get high, it would be a nearly impossible choice to make. The distant way in which this fact appalled me itself appalled me. The
founder of the sub-14's'
     Tunnel Club had been Heath Pearson as a very little boy. The rumor that Pemulis himself would don the beanie for the next
Eschaton came from Kent Blott; Pemulis had been avoiding me ever since I returned from Natick on Tuesday -- as if he sensed
something. The woman behind the register at the Shell station last night had recoiled as I approached to present my card before
pumping, as if she too had seen something in my expression I hadn't known was there. The North American Collegiate Dictionary
claimed that any 'very heavy' snowstorm with 'high winds' qualified as a blizzard. Himself, for two years before his death, had had
this delusion of silence when I spoke: I believed I was speaking and he believed I was not speaking. Mario averred that Himself
had never accused him of not speaking. I tried to recall whether I had ever brought the subject up with the Moms. The Moms was
at pains to be completely approachable on all subjects except Himself and what had been going on between her and Himself as
Himself withdrew more and more. She never forbade questions about it; she just got so pained and blurry-faced that you felt cruel
asking her anything. I considered whether Pemulis's cessation of the math-tutorials was perhaps an oblique affirmation, a kind of
You Are Ready. Pemulis often communicated in a kind of esoteric code. It was true that I had kept mostly to myself in the room
since Tuesday. The condensed O.E.D., in a rare bit of florid imprecision, defined blizzard as 'A furious blast of frost-wind and
blinding snow in which man and beast frequently perish,' claiming the word was either a neologism or a corruption of the French
blesser, coined in English by a reporter for Iowa's Northern Vindicator in B.S. 1864. Orin alleged in Y.T.M.P. that when he took
the Moms's car in the morning he sometimes observed the smeared prints of nude human feet on the inside of the windshield.
V.R.5's heating duct's grille gave off a sterile hiss. All up and down the hall were sounds of the Academy coming to life, making
competitive ablutions, venting anxiety and complaints at the possible blizzard outside -- wanting to play. There was heavy foot-
traffic in the third-floor hall above me. Orin was going through a period where he was attracted only to young mothers of small
children. A hunched way: she hunches; you hunch. John Wayne had had a violent allergic reaction to a decongestant and had com-
mandeered the WETA microphone and publicly embarrassed himself on Troeltsch's Tuesday broadcast, apparently, and had been
taken to St. Elizabeth's overnight for observation, but had recovered quickly enough to come home and then finish ahead even of
Stice in Wednesday's conditioning run. I missed the entire thing and was filled in by Mario on my return from Natick -- Wayne
had apparently said unkind things about various E.T.A. staff and administration, none of which anyone who knew Wayne and all
he stood for had taken seriously. Relief that he was OK had dominated everyone's accounts of the whole incident; the Moms
herself had apparently stayed by Wayne's side late into the night at St. E.'s, which Booboo felt was estimable and just like the
Moms. Simply imagining the total number of times my chest will rise and fall and rise. If you want prescriptive specificity you go
to a hard-ass: Sitney and Schneewind's Dictionary of Environmental Sciences required 12 cm./hour of continuous snowfall,
minimum winds of 60 kph., and visibility of less than 500 meters; and only if these conditions obtained for more than three hours
was it a blizzard; less than three hours was 'C-IV Squall.' The dedication and sustained energy that go into true perspicacity and
expertise were exhausting even to think about.
      It now lately sometimes seemed like a kind of black miracle to me that people could actually care deeply about a subject or
pursuit, and could go on caring this way for years on end. Could dedicate their entire lives to it. It seemed admirable and at the
same time pathetic. We are all dying to give our lives away to something, maybe. God or Satan, politics or grammar, topology or
philately -- the object seemed incidental to this will to give oneself away, utterly. To games or needles, to some other person.
Something pathetic about it. A flight-from in the form of a plunging-into. Flight from exactly what? These rooms blandly filled
with excrement and meat? To what purpose? This was why they started us here so young: to give ourselves away before the age
when the questions why and to what grow real beaks and claws. It was kind, in a way. Modern German is better equipped for
combining gerundives and prepositions than is its mongrel cousin. The original sense of addiction involved being bound over,
dedicated, either legally or spiritually. To devote one's life, plunge in. I had researched this. Stice had asked whether I believed in
ghosts. It's always seemed a little preposterous that Hamlet, for all his paralyzing doubt about everything, never once doubts the
reality of the ghost. Never questions whether his own madness might not in fact be unfeigned. Stice had promised something
boggling to look at. That is, whether Hamlet might be only feigning feigning. I kept thinking of the Film and Cartridge Studies
professor's final soliloquy in Himself's unfinished Good-Looking Men in Small Clever Rooms that Utilize Every Centimeter of
Available Space with Mind-Boggling Efficiency, the sour parody of academia that the Moms had taken as an odd personal slap. I
kept thinking I really should go up and check on The Darkness. There seemed to be so many implications even to thinking about
sitting up and standing up and exiting V.R.5 and taking a certain variable-according-to-stride-length number of steps to the
stairwell door, on and on, that just the thought of getting up made me glad I was lying on the floor.
      I was on the floor. I felt the Nile-green carpet with the back of each hand. I was completely horizontal. I was comfortable
lying perfectly still and staring at the ceiling. I was enjoying being one horizontal object in a room filled with horizontality.
Charles Tavis is probably not related to the Moms by actual blood. Her extremely tall French-Canadian mother died when the
Moms was eight. Her father left their potato farm on 'business' a few months later and was gone for several weeks. He did this sort
of thing with some frequency. A binge-drinker. Eventually there would be a telephone call from some distant province or U.S.
state, and one of the hired men would go off to bail him out. From this disappearance, though, he returned with a new bride the
Moms had known nothing about, an American widow named Elizabeth Tavis, who in the stilted Vermont wedding photo seems
almost certainly to have been a dwarf -- the huge square head, the relative length of the trunk compared to the legs, the sunken
nasal bridge and protruding eyes, the stunted phocomelic arms around squire Mondragon's right thigh, one khaki-colored cheek
pressed affectionately against his belt-buckle. C.T. was the infant son she'd brought to the new union, his father a ne'er-do-well
killed in a freak accident playing competitive darts in a Brattleboro tavern just as they were trying to adjust the obstetric stirrups
for the achondroplas-tic Mrs. Tavis's labor and delivery. Her smile in the wedding photo is homo-dontic. According to Orin,
though, C.T. and the Moms claim Mrs. T. was not a true homodont the way -- for instance -- Mario is a true homodont. Every
single one of Mario's teeth is a second bicuspid. So it was all rather up in the air. The account of the disappearance, darts-accident,
and dental incongruity comes from Orin, who claimed to have decocted it all out of an extended one-sided conversation he had
with a distraught C.T. in the waiting room of Brigham and Women's OB/GYN while the Moms was prematurely delivering Mario.
Orin had been seven years old; Himself had been in the delivery room, where apparently Mario's birth was quite a touch-and-go
thing. The fact that Orin was our one and only source for data shrouded the whole thing in further ambiguity, as far as I was
concerned. Pinpoint accuracy had never been Orin's forte. The wedding photo was available for inspection, of course, and
confirmed Mrs. Tavis as huge-headed and wildly short. Neither Mario nor I had ever approached the Moms on the issue, possibly
out of fear of reopening psychic wounds from a childhood that had always sounded unhappy. All I knew for sure was that I had
never approached her about it.
      For their part, the Moms and C.T. have never represented themselves as anything other than unrelated but extremely close.
      The attack of panic and prophylactic focus's last spasm now suddenly almost overwhelmed me with the intense horizontality
that was all around me in the Viewing Room -- the ceiling, floor, carpet, table-tops, the chairs' seats and the shelves at their backs'
tops. And much more -- the shimmering horizontal lines in the Kevlon wall-fabric, the very long top of the viewer, the top and
bottom borders of the door, the spectation pillows, the viewer's bottom, the squat black cartridge-drive's top and bottom and the
little push-down controls that protruded like stunted tongues. The seemingly endless horizontality of the couch's and chairs' and
recumbency's seats, the wall of shelves' every line, the varied horizontal shelving of the ovoid case, two of every cartridge-case's
four sides, on and on. I lay in my tight little sarcophagus of space. The horizontality piled up all around me. I was the meat in the
room's sandwich. I felt awakened to a basic dimension I'd neglected during years of upright movement, of standing and running
and stopping and jumping, of walking endlessly upright from one side of the court to the other. I had understood myself for years
as basically vertical, an odd forked stalk of stuff and blood. I felt denser now; I felt more solidly composed, now that I was
horizontal. I was impossible to knock down.