      As at all D.S.A.S.-certified halfway facilities, Ennet House's resident curfew is 2330h. From 2300 to 2330, the Staffer on
night-duty has to do head-counts and sit around like somebody's mom waiting for different residents to come in. There's always
ones that always like to cut it close and play with the idea of getting Discharged for something picayune so it won't be their fault.
Tonight Clenette H. and the deeply whacked-out Yolanda W. come back in from Footprints246236 around 2315 in purple skirts
and purple lipstick and ironed hair, tottering on heels and telling each other what a wicked time they just had. Hester Thrale
undulates in in a false fox jacket at 2320 as usual even though she has to be up at like 0430 for the breakfast-shift at the Provident
Nursing Home and sometimes eats breakfast with Gately, both of their faces nodding down perilously close to their Frosted
Flakes. Chandler Foss and the spectrally thin April Cortelyu come in from someplace with postures and expressions that arouse
comments and force Gately to Log a possible issue about an in-House relationship. Gately has to bid goodnight to two craggy-
faced brunette ex-residents who've been planted on the couch all night talking cults. Emil Minty and Nell Gunther and sometimes
Gavin Diehl (who Gately did three weeks of a municipal bit with, once, at Concord Farm) make a nightly point of going to smoke
outside on the front porch and coming in only after Gately says twice he's got to lock the door, just as some limp rebellious
gesture. Tonight they're closely followed by a mus-tacheless Lenz, who sort of oozes through the door just as Gately's going
through his keys to get the key to lock it, and kind of brushes by and goes up to the 3-Man without a word, which he's been doing
a lot lately, which Gately has to Log, plus the fact that it's now after 2330 and he can't account for either the semi-new girl Amy J.
or -- more upsetting -- Bruce Green. Then Green knocks at the front door at 2336 -- Gately has to Log the exact time and then
it's his call whether to unlock the door. After curfew Staff doesn't have to unlock the door. Many a bad-news resident gets
effectively bounced this way. Gately lets him in. Green's never come close to missing curfew before and looks godawful, skin
potato-white and eyes vacant. And a big quiet kid is one thing, but Green looks at the floor of Pat's office like it's a loved one
while Gately gives him the required ass-chewing; and Green takes the standard dreaded week's Full House Restriction247237 in
such a vacantly hangdog way, and is so lamely vague when Gately asks does he want to tell him where he's been at and why he
couldn't make 2330 and whether there's anything that's an issue that he might want to share with Staff, so unresponsive that Gately
feels like he has no choice but to pull an immediate spot-urine on Green, which Gately hates doing not only because he plays
cribbage with Green and feels like he's taken Green under the old Gately wing and is probably the closest thing to a sponsor the
kid's got but also because urine samples taken after Unit #2's clinic's closed248238 have to be stored overnight in the little Staff
miniature fridgelette in Don Gately's basement room -- the only fridge in the House that no resident could conceivably dicky into
-- and Gately hates to have a warm blue-lidded cup of somebody's goddamn urine in his fridgelette with his pears and Polar selt-
zer, etc. Green submits to Gately's cross-armed presence in the men's head as Green produces a urine so efficiently and with so
little bullshit that Gately is able to take the lidded cup between gloved thumb and finger and get it downstairs and tagged and
Logged and down in the fridgelette in time to not be late for getting the residents' cars moved, the night-shift's biggest pain in the
ass; but then his final head-count at 2345 reminds Gately that Amy J. isn't back, and she hasn't called, and Pat has told him the
decision to Discharge after a missed curfew is his call, and at 2350 Gately makes the decision, and has to get Treat and Belbin to
go up into the 5-Woman room and pack the girl's stuff up in the same Irish Luggage she'd brought it in Monday, and Gately has to
put the trashbags on the front porch with a quick note explaining the Discharge and wishing the girl good luck, and has to call
Pat's answering device down in Milton and leave word of a mandatory Curfew-Discharge at 2350h., so Pat can hear about it first
thing in the a.m. and schedule interviews to fill the available bed ASAP, and then with a hissed curse Gately remembers the anti-
big-hanging-gut situps he's sworn to himself to do every night before 0000, and it's 2356, and he has time to do only 20 with his
huge discolored sneakers wedged under the frame of the office's black vinyl couch before it's unavoidably time to supervise
moving the residents' cars around.
      Gately's predecessor as male live-in Staff, a designer-narcotics man who's now (via Mass Rehab) learning to repair jet engines
at East Coast AeroTech, once described residents' vehicles to Gately as a continuing boil on the ass of night Staff. Ennet House
Jets any resident with a legally registered vehicle and insurance keep their car at the House, if they want, during residency, to use
for work and nightly meetings, etc., and the Enfield Marine Public Health Hospital goes along, except they put authorized parking
for all the Units' clients out in the little street right outside the House. And since metro Boston's serious fiscal troubles in the third
year of Subsidized Time there's been this hellish municipal deal where only one side of any street is legal for parking, and the
legal side switches abruptly at 0000h., and cruisers and municipal tow trucks prowl the streets from 0001h. on, writing $95.00
tickets and/or towing suddenly-illegally-parked vehicles to a region of the South End so blasted and dangerous no cabbie with
anything to live for will even go there. So the interval 2355h.-OOO5h. in Boston is a time of total but not very spiritual
community, with guys in skivvies and ladies in mud-masks staggering out yawning into the crowded midnight streets and
disabling their alarms and revving and all trying to pull out and do a U and find a parallel-parking place facing the other way.
There's nothing very mysterious about the fact that metro Boston's battery- and homicide-rates during this ten-minute interval are
the highest per diem, so that ambulances and paddy wagons are especially aprowl at this hour, too, adding to the general clot and
snarl.
     Since the E.M.P.H.H. Units' catatonics and enfeebled people rarely own registered vehicles, it's generally pretty easy to find
places along the little road to switch to, but it's a constant sore point between Pat Montesian and the E.M.P.H.H. Board of Regents
that Ennet House residents don't get to park overnight in the big off-street lot by the condemned hospital building -- the lot's
spaces are reserved for all the different Units' professional staff starting at 0600h., and E.M. Security got sick of staffs' complaints
about drug addicts' poorly maintained autos still sitting there taking up their spots in the A.M. -- and that Security won't consider
changing the little E.M. streetlet's nightly side-switch to 2300h., before Ennet Houses's D.S.A.S.-required curfew; E.M.'s Board
claims it's a municipal ordinance that they can't be expected to mess with just to accommodate one tenant, while Pat's memos keep
pointing out that the Enfield Marine Hospital complex is state- not city-owned, and that Ennet House residents are the only tenants
who face the nightly car-moving problem, since just about everyone else is catatonic or enfeebled. And so on.
     But so every P.M. at like 2359 Gately has to lock up the lockers and Pat's cabinets and desk drawers and the door to the front
office and put the phone console's answering machine on and personally escort all residents who own cars out post-curfew outside
into the little nameless streetlet, and for somebody with Gately's real limited managerial skills the headaches involved are
daunting: he has to herd the vehicular residents together just inside the locked front door; he has to threaten the residents he's
herded together into staying together by the door while he clomps upstairs to get the one or two drivers who always forget and fall
asleep before 0000 -- and this straggler-collecting is a particular pain in the ass if the straggler's a female, because he has to
unlock and press the Male Coming Up button by the kitchen, and the 'buzzer' sounds more like a klaxon, and wakes the edgiest
female residents up with an ugly surge of adrenaline, and Gately as he clomps up the stairs gets roundly bitched out by all the
mud-masked heads sticking out into the female hall, and he by regulation can't go into the sleeper's bedroom but has to pound on
the door and keep shouting out his gender and get one of the straggler's roommates to wake her up and get her dressed and to the
bedroom door; so he has to retrieve the stragglers and chew them out and threaten them with both a Restriction and a possible tow
while herding them quick-walking down the staircase to join the main car-owner herd as quickly as possible before the main herd
can like disperse. They'll always disperse if he takes too long getting stragglers; they'll get distracted or hungry or need an ashtray
or just get impatient and start looking at the whole car-moving-after-curfew thing as an imposition on their time. Their early-
recovery Denial makes it impossible for them to imagine their own car getting towed instead of, say, somebody else's car. It's the
same Denial Gately can see at work in the younger B.U. or -C. students when he's driving Pat's Aventura to the Food Bank or
Purity Supreme when they'll fucking walk right out in the street against the light in front of the car, whose brakes are fortunately
in top shape. Gately's snapped to the fact that people of a certain age and level of like life-experience believe they're immortal:
college students and alcoholics/addicts are the worst: they deep-down believe they're exempt from the laws of physics and
statistics that ironly govern everybody else. They'll piss and moan your ear off if somebody else fucks with the rules, but they
don't deep down see themselves subject to them, the same rules. And they're constitutionally unable to learn from anybody else's
experience: if some jaywalking B.U. student does get splattered on Comm. or some House resident does get his car towed at 0005,
your other student's or addict's response to this will be to ponder just what imponderable difference makes it possible for that other
guy to get splattered or towed and not him, the ponderer. They never doubt the difference -- they just ponder it. It's like a kind of
idolatry of uniqueness. It's unvarying and kind of spirit-killing for a Staffer to watch, that the only way your addict ever learns
anything is the hard way. It has to happen to them to like upset the idolatry. Eugenio M. and Annie Parrot always recommend
letting everybody get towed at least once, early on in their residency, to help make believers out of them in terms of laws and
rules; but Gately for some reason on his night-shifts can't do it, cannot fucking stand to have one of his people get towed as long
as there's something he can do to prevent it, and then plus if they do get towed there's the nail-chewing hassle of arranging their
transport to the South End's municipal lot the next day, fielding calls from bosses and supplying verification of residents'
carlessness in terms of getting to work without letting the boss know that the earless employee is a resident of a halfway house,
which is totally sacred private residents' private information to give out or not -- Gately breaks a full-body sweat just thinking
about the managerial headaches involved in a fucking tow, so he'll spend time herding and regathering and chewing the
absentminded asses of residents who Gene M. says have such calloused asses still it's a waste of Gately's time and spirit: you have
to let them learn for themselves.249239 Gately alerts Thrale and Foss and Erdedy and Henderson,250240 and Morris Hanley, and
drags the new kid Tingley out of the linen closet, and Nell Gunther -- who's fucking sacked out slack-mouthed on the couch, in
violation -- and lets them all get coats and herds them together by the locked front door. Yolanda W. says she left personal items
in Clenette's car and can she come. Lenz owns a car but doesn't answer Gately's yell up the stairs. Gately tells the herd to stay put
and that if anybody leaves the herd he's going to take a personal interest in their discomfort. Gately clomps up the stairs and into
the 3-Man room, plotting different fun ways to wake Lenz up without bruises that'd show. Lenz is not asleep but is wearing
personal-stereo headphones, plus a jock strap, doing handstand-pushups up against the wall by Geoffrey Day's rack, his bottom
only inches from Day's pillow and farting in rhythm to the pushups' downstrokes, as Day lies there in pajamas and Lone Ranger
sleep mask, hands folded over his heaving chest, lips moving soundlessly. Gately's maybe a little rough about grabbing Lenz's calf
and lifting him off his hands and using his other big hand on Lenz's hip to twirl him around upright like a drill-team's rifle, but
Lenz's cry is of over-ebullient greeting, not pain, but it sends both Day and Gavin Diehl bolt-upright in their racks, and then they
curse as Lenz hits the floor. Lenz starts saying he'd let time completely get away from him and didn't know what time it was.
Gately can hear the herd down by the front door at the bottom of the stairs stamping and chuffing and getting ready to maybe
disperse.
     Up this close, Gately doesn't even need his Staffer's eerie seventh sense to sense that Lenz is clearly wired on either 'drines or
Bing. That Lenz has been visited by the Sergeant at Arms. Lenz's right eyeball is wobbling around in its socket and his mouth
writhing in that way and he has that Nietzschean supercharged aura of a wired individual, and all the time he's throwing on slacks
and topcoat and incognitoizing wig and getting almost pitched headfirst down the stairs by Gately he's telling this insane
breathless whopper about his finger once getting cut off and then spontaneously regentrifying itself back on, and his mouth is
writhing in that fish-on-a-gaff way distinctive of a sustained L-Dopa surge, and Gately wants to pull an immediate urine,
immediate, but meanwhile the cars' herd's edges are just starting to widen in that way that precedes distraction and dispersal, and
they're angry not at Lenz for straggling but at Gately for even bothering with him, and Lenz pantomimes the akido Serene But
Deadly Crane stance at Ken Erdedy, and it's 0004h. and Gately can see tow trucks aprowl way down on Comm. Ave., coming this
way, and he jangles his keys and unlocks all three curfew-locks on the front door and gets everybody out in the scrotum-tightening
November cold and out down the walk to the line of their cars in the little street and stands there on the porch watching in just
orange shirtsleeves, making sure Lenz doesn't bolt before he can pull a spot-urine and extract an admission and Discharge him
officially, feeling a twinge of conscience at so looking forward to giving Lenz the administrative shoe, and Lenz jabbers nonstop
to whoever's closest all the way to his Duster, and everybody goes to their car, and the backwash around Gately from the open
House door is hot and people in the living room provide loud feedback on the draft from the open door, the sky overhead immense
and dimensional and the night so clear you can see stars hanging in a kind of lacteal goo, and out on the streetlet a couple car
doors are squeaking and slamming and some people are conversing and delaying just to make Staff have to stand there in
shirtsleeves on the cold porch, a small nightly sideways ball-busting rebellious gesture, when Gately's eye falls on Doony R.
Glynn's specialty-disembowelled old dusty-black VW Bug parked with the other cars on the now-illicit street-side, its rear-mount
engine's guts on full glittered display under the little street's lights, and Glynn's upstairs in bed tonight legitimately prostrate with
diverticulitis, which for insurance reasons means Gately has to go back in and ask some resident with a driver's license to come
move Glynn's VW across the street, which is humiliating because it means admitting publicly to these specimens that he, Gately,
doesn't have a valid license, and the sudden heat of the living room confuses his goose-pimples, and nobody in the living room
will admit to have a driver's license, and it turns out the only licensed resident who's still vertical and downstairs is Bruce Green,
who's in the kitchen expressionlessly stirring a huge amount of sugar into a cup of coffee with his bare blunt finger, and Gately
finds himself having to ask for managerial assistance from a kid he likes and has just bitched out and extracted urine from, which
Green minimizes the humiliation of the whole thing by volunteering to help the second he hears the words Glynn and fucking car,
and goes to the living room closet to get out his cheap leather jacket and fingerless gloves, and but Gately now has to leave the
residents outside still unsupervised for a second to go clomping upstairs and verify that it's kosher with Glynn for Bruce Green to
move his car.251241 The 2-Man seniorest males' bedroom has a bunch of old AA bumper-stickers on it and a calligraphic poster
saying EVERYTHING I'VE EVER LET GO OF HAS CLAW MARKS ON IT, and the answer to Gately's knock is a moan, and
Glynn's little naked-lady bedside lamp he brought in with him is on, he's in his rack curled on his side clutching his abdomen like
a kicked man. McDade is illicitly sitting on Foss's rack reading one of Foss's motorcycle magazines and drinking Glynn's
Millennial Fizzy with stereo headphones on, and he hurriedly puts out his cigarette when Gately enters and closes the little drawer
in the bedside table where Foss keeps his ashtray just like everybody else.252242 The street outside sounds like Daytona -- a
drug addict is like physically unable to start a car without gunning the engine. Gately looks quickly out the west window over
Glynn's rack to verify that all the unsupervised headlights going down the little street are Uing and coming back the right way to
repark. Gately's forehead is wet and he feels the start of a greasy headache, from managerial stress. Glynn's crossed eyes are
glassy and feverish and he's softly singing the lyrics to a Choosy Mothers song to a tune that isn't the song's tune.
     'Doon,' Gately whispers.
     One of the cars is coming back down the street a little fast for Gately's taste. Anything involving residents that happens on the
grounds after curfew is his responsibility, the House Manager's made clear.
     'Doon.'
     It's the bottom eye, grotesquely, that rolls up at Gately. 'Don.'
     'Doon.'
     'Don Doon the witch is dead.'
     'Doon, I need to let Green move your car.'
     'Vehicle's black, Don.'
     'Brucie Green needs your keys so's we can switch your car over, brother, it's midnight.'
     'My Black Bug. My baby. The Roachmobile. The Doonulater's wheels. His mobility. His exposed baby. His slice of the
American Pie. Simonize my baby when I'm gone, Don Doon.'
     'Keys, Doony.'
     'Take them. Take it. Want you to have it. One true friend. Brought me Ritz crackers and a Fizz. Treat it like a roachlady.
Shiny, black, hard, mobile. Needs Premium and a weekly wax.'
     'Doon. You got to show me where's the keys, brother.'
     'And the bowel. Gotta weekly shine the pipes in the bowel. Exposed to view. With a soft cloth. The mobile roach. The
bowelmobile.'
     The heat coming off Glynn is face-tightening.
     'You feel like you got a fever, Doon?' At one point elements of Staff thought Glynn might be playing sick to get out of
looking for a job after losing his menial job at Brighton Fence & Wire. All Gately knows about diverticulitis is that Pat said it's
intestinal and alcoholics can get it in recovery from impurities in bottom-shelf blends that the body's trying to expel. Glynn's had
physical complaints all through his residency, but nothing like this here. His face is gray and waxy with pain and there's a
yellowish crust on his lips. Glynn's got a real severe adtorsion, and the bottom eye is rolled up at Gately with a terrible delirious
glitter, the top eye rolling around like a cow's eye. Gately still cannot bring himself to feel another man's forehead. He settles for
punching Glynn very lightly on the shoulder.
     'You think we need to take you over to St. E.'s to get your intestine looked at, Doon, do you think?'
     'Hoits, Don.'
     'You think you --?'
     Because he's worrying about what if a resident comas or dies on his shift, and then feeling shame that this is his worry, the
squeal of brakes and raised voices' noises down out front hasn't registered on Gately right away, but Hester Thrale's unmistakable
high-B# scream does -- i.e. register -- and now serious feet running up the stairs:
     Green's face in the doorway, red in round patches high on his cheeks: 'Come out.'
     'The fuck's the problem out --'
     Green: 'Come now Gately.'
     Glynn sotto: 'Mother.'
     Gately doesn't get to even ask Green what the fuck again on the stairs because Green is down ahead out the door so fast; the
damn front door's been open all this time. A watercolor of a retrieverish dog cants and then falls from the wall on the staircase
from the vibrations of Gately taking two stairs down at a time. He doesn't take time to grab his coat off Pat's couch. All he's got on
is a donated orange bowling shirt with the name Moose cursive-stitched on the breast and SHUCO-MIST M.P.S. in ghastly aqua
blocks across the back,253243 and he feels every follicle on his body hump up again as the cold encases him on the front porch
and the wheelchair-ramp down to the little walkway. The night is cold and glycerine-clear and quite still. Very distant sounds of
car horns and raised voices down on Comm. Green's receding at a run off up the little streetlet into a glare of highbeams that
diffracts in the clouds of Gately's breath, so even as Gately walks briskly254244 in Green's leather-smelling backwash toward a
rising hubbub of curses and Lenz's high-speed voice and Thrale's glass-shattering cries and Henderson and Willis talking shit
angrily to somebody and the sound of Joelle v.D.'s veiled head in an upstairs window that isn't the 5-Women room's shouting
something down to Gately as he appears in the street, even as he closes in it takes a while for the scene to decoct out of the fog of
his breath and its shifting spears of color against the headlights. He passes Glynn's disembowelled and illegally parked Bug.
Several of the residents' cars are idling at haphazard angles of mid-U-turn in the middle of the street, and in front of them is a
modified dark Montego with highbeams and jacked rear wheels and a turbo's carnivorous idle. Two almost Gately-sized bearded
guys in loose like bowling-wear shirts with flowers or suns on them and what look like big faggy necklaces of flowers around
what would be their necks if they had necks turn out to be chasing Randy Lenz around this Montego car. Yet another guy with a
necklace and a plaid Donegal is holding the rest of the residents at bay on the lawn of #4 with a nasty-looking Item255245
expertly held. Everything now slightly slows down; at the sight of an Item held on his residents there's almost a kind of
mechanistic click as Gately's mind shifts into a different kind of drive. He gets very cool and clear and his headache recedes and
his breathing slows. It's not so much that things slow as break into frames.
     The ruckus has aroused the old nurse in #4 who Asks For Help, and her spectral figure is splayed in a nightie against an
upstairs #4 window yelling 'Eeeeeeeyelp!' Hester Thrale now has her pink-nailed hands over her eyes and is screaming over and
over for nobody to hurt nobody especially her. It's the Bulldog Item that holds the attention. The two guys chasing Lenz around
the Montego are unarmed but look coldly determined in a way Gately recognizes. They're not wearing coats either but they don't
look cold. All this appraisal's taking only seconds; it only takes time to list it. They have vaguely non-U.S. beards and are each
about 4/s Gately's size. They take turns coming around the car and running past the headlights' glare and Gately can see they have
similar froggy lippy pale foreign faces. Lenz is talking at the guys nonstop, mostly imprecating. They're all three going around and
around the car like a cartoon. Gately's still walking up as he sees all this. It's obvious to appraisal the foreignish guys aren't real
bright because of they're chasing Lenz in tandem instead of heading around the car in opposite directions to trap him in like a
pincer. They all three stop and start, Lenz across the car from them. Some of the at-bay residents are yelling to Lenz. Like most
coke-dealers Lenz is quick on his feet, his topcoat billowing and then settling whenever he stops. Lenz's voice is nonstop -- he's
alternately inviting the guy to perform impossible acts and advancing baroque arguments for how whatever they think he did
there's no way he was even in the same area code as whatever happened that they think he did. The guys keep speeding up like
they want to catch Lenz just to shut him up. Ken Erdedy has his hands up and his car keys in his hand; his legs look like he's about
to wet himself. Clenette and the new black girl, clearly veterans at gunpoint-etiquette, are prone on the lawn with their fingers
laced behind their heads. Nell Gunther's assumed Lenz's old martial-arts Crane stance, hands twisted into flat claws, eyeing the
guy's .44, which pans coolly back and forth over the residents. This smaller guy gets the most frames the slowest. He's got on a
plaid hunting cap that keeps Gately from seeing if he's foreign also. But the guy's holding the weapon in the classic Weaver stance
of somebody that can really shoot -- left foot slightly forward, slightly hunched, a two-handed grip with the right arm cocked
elbow-out so the Item's held high up in front of the guy's face, up to his sighting eye. This is how policemen and Made Guys from
the North End shoot. Gately knows weapons way better than sobriety, still. And the Item -- if the guy trig-pulls on some resident
that resident's going down -- the Item's some customized version of a U.S. .44 Bulldog Special, or maybe a Nuck or Brazilian
clone, blunt and ugly and with a bore like the mouth of a cave. The stout alcoholic kid Tingley has both hands to his cheeks and is
100% at bay. The piece's been modified, Gately can appraise. The barrel's been vented out near the muzzle to cut your Bulldog's
infamous recoil, the hammer's bobbed, and the thing's got a fat Mag Na Port or -clone grip like the metro Finest favor. This is not
a weekend-warrior or liquor-store-holdup type Item; it's one that's made real specifically for putting projectiles into people. It's not
a semiauto but is throated for a fucking speed-loader, which Gately can't see if the guy's got a speed-loader under the loose floral
shirt but needs to assume the guy's got near-unlimited shots with a speed-loader. The North Shore Finest on the other hand wrap
their grips in this like colored gauze that wicks sweat. Gately tries to recall a past associate's insufferable ammo-lectures when
under the influence -- your Bulldog and clones can take anything from light target loads and wadcutter to Colt SofTip dum-dums
and worse. He's pretty sure this thing could put him down with one round; he's not sure. Gately's never been shot but he's seen
guys shot. He feels something that is neither fear nor excitement. Joelle van D. is shouting stuff you can't make out, and Erdedy at
bay on the lawn's calling out to her to get her head out of the whole picture. Gately's been bearing down this whole brief time,
both seeing his breath and hearing it, beating his arms across his chest to keep some feeling in his hands. You could almost call
what he feels a kind of jolly calm. The unAmerican guys chase Lenz and then stop across the car facing him for a second and then
get furious again and chase him. Gately guesses he ought to be grateful the third guy doesn't come over and just shoot him. Lenz
puts both hands on whatever part of the car he stops at and sends language out across the car at the two guys. Lenz's white wig is
askew and he's got no mustache, you can see. E.M. Security, normally so scrupulous with their fucking trucks at 0005h., is
nowhere around, lending weight to yet another cliche. If you asked Gately what he was feeling right this second he'd have no idea.
He's got a hand up shading his eyes and closes on the Montego as things further clarify. One of the guys now you can see has
Lenz's disguise's mustache in two fingers and keeps holding it up and brandishing it at Lenz. The other guy issues stilted but
colorful threats in a Canadian accent, so it emerges on Gately it's Nucks, the trio Lenz has managed to somehow enrage is Nucks.
Gately cops a black surge of Remember-Whenning, the babbling little football-head Québecer he'd killed by gagging a man with a
bad cold. This line of thinking is intolerable. Joelle's overhead shout to for Christ's sake somebody call Pat mixes in and out of the
Help lady's cries. It occurs to Gately that the Help lady has cried Wolf for so many years that real shouts for real help are all going
to be ignored. The residents all look to Gately as he crosses the street directly into the Montego's wash of light. Hester Thrale
screams out Look out there's a Item. The plaid-hat Nuck pans stiffly to sight at Gately, his elbow up around his ear. It occurs to
Gately if you fire with an Item right up to your sighting-eye like that won't you get a face full of cordite. There's a break in the
circular action around the throbbing car as Lenz shouts Don with great gusto just as the Help lady shouts for Help. The Nuck with
the Item has backed up several steps to keep the residents in his peripheral vision while he sights square on Gately as the massive
Nuck holding the mustache across the car tells Gately if he was him he'd return to whence he came, him, to avoid the trouble.
Gately nods and beams. Nucks really do pronounce the with a z. Both the car and Lenz are between Gately and the large Nucks,
Lenz's back to Gately. Gately stands quietly, wishing he felt different about potential trouble, less almost jolly. Late in Gately's
Substance and burglary careers, when he'd felt so low about himself, he'd had sick little fantasies of saving somebody from harm,
some innocent party, and getting killed in the process and getting eulogized at great length in bold-faced Globe print. Now Lenz
breaks away from the hood of the car and dashes Gately's way and around behind him to stand behind him, spreading his arms
wide to put a hand on each of Gately's shoulders, using Don Gately like a shield. Gately's stance has the kind of weary resolution
of like You'll Have to Go Through Me. The only anxious part of him can see the Log entry he'll have to make if residents come to
physical grief on his shift. For a moment he can almost smell the smells of the penitentiary, armpits and Pomade and sour food
and cribbage-board-wood and reefer and mopwater, the rich piss stink of a zoo's lion house, the smell of the bars you lace your
hands through and stand there, looking out. This line of thinking is intolerable. He's neither goosepimpled nor sweating. His
senses haven't been this keen in over a year. The stars in their jelly and dirty sodium lamplight and stark white steer-horns of
headlights splayed at residents' different angles. Star-chocked sky, his breath, faraway horns, low trill of ATHSCMEs way to the
north. Thin keen cold air in his wide-open nose. Motionless heads at #5's windows.
     The Nuck duo with flowers chasing Lenz come around this side and now break away from the car toward them. Now Hester
Thrale at Gately's right periphery breaks away from the cluster and runs for it off into the night across the lawn and behind #4,
waving her arms and screaming, and Minty and McDade and Parias-Carbo and Charlotte Treat appear out of Ennet House's back
door across the hedge and mill and jostle amid the mops and old furniture on Ennet's back porch, watching, and a couple of the
more mobile catatonics appear on the porch of the Shed across the little street, staring at the spect-op, all this flummoxing the
smaller one so he keeps swinging the Item stiffly this way and that way, trying to keep way more people at potential bay. The two
alien foreigners that want Lenz's map bear down slowly across the Montego's headlights toward where Lenz is holding Gately like
a shield. The larger one that's so large his luauish shirt won't even button all the way holding out the mustache adopts the overly
reasonable tone that always precedes a serious-type beef. He reads Gately's bowling shirt in the headlight and says reasonably that
Moose still has a chance to keep out of what they've got no beef with him, them. Lenz is pouring a diarrheatic spatter of
disclaimers and exhortations into Gately's right ear. Gately shrugs at the Nucks like he's got no choice but to be here. Green's just
looking at them. It occurs to Gately by White Flag suggestion that who gives a fuck how it'd look, he ought to hit his knees right
here on the headlit blacktop and ask for guidance on this from a Higher Power. But he stands there, Lenz chattering in his shadow.
The fingernails of Lenz's hand on Gately's shoulder have horseshoes of dried blood in the creases between nail and finger, and
there's a coppery smell off Lenz that isn't just fear. It occurs to Gately that if he'd pulled the instant spot-urine he'd wanted on Lenz
this whole snafu wouldn't maybe be happening. The one Nuck is holding Lenz's disguise's mustache out at them like a blade. Lenz
hasn't asked the time once, notice. Then the other Nuck's got his hand down at his side and a real blade's gleam appears in that
hand with the familiar snick. At the blade's sound the situation becomes even more automatic and Gately feels adrenaline's
warmth spread through him as his subdural hardware clicks deeper into a worn familiar long-past track. Having no choice now not
to fight and things simplify radically, divisions collapse. Gately's just one part of something bigger he can't control. His face in the
left headlight has dropped into its fight-expression of ferocious good cheer. He says he's responsible for these people on these
private grounds tonight and is part of this whether he wants to be or not, and can they talk this out because he doesn't want to have
to fight them. He says twice very distinctly that he does not want to fight them. He's no longer divided enough to think about
whether this is true. His eyes are on the two men's maple-leaf belt buckles, the part of the body where you can't get suckered by a
feint. The guys shake their manes and say they're going to unembowel this craven bâtard here like this sans-Christe bâtard killed
somebody they call either Pépé or Bébé, and if Moose has any self-interest he'll backpedal away from there's no way it is his duty
to get frapped or fropped for this sick gutless U.S.A. bâtard in his womanly wig. Lenz, apparently thinking they're Brazilian, pops
his head around Gately's flank and calls them marìcones and tells them they can suck his bâtard is what they can do. Gately has
just division enough to almost wish he didn't feel such a glow of familiar warmth, a surge of almost sexual competence, as the two
shriek at Lenz's taunts and split and curve in at them an arm's length apart, walking gradually faster, like unstoppable inertia, but
stupidly too close together. At two meters off they charge, shedding petals and unisonly bellowing something in Canadian.
      It's always that everything always speeds up and slows down both. Gately's smile broadens as he's shoved slightly forward by
Lenz as Lenz recoils backward off him to run from the guys' shrieking charge. Gately takes the shove's momentum and
bodychecks the enormous Nuck holding the mustache into the Nuck holding the blade, who goes down with an euf of expelled air.
The first Nuck has hold of Gately's bowling shirt and rips it and punches Gately in the forehead and audibly breaks his hand,
letting go of Gately to grab his hand. The punch makes Gately stop thinking in any sort of spiritual terms at all. Gately takes the
man's broken hand's arm he's holding out and with his eyes on the ground's other Nuck breaks the arm over his knee, and as the
guy goes down on one knee Gately takes the arm and pirouettes around twisting the broken arm behind the guy's back and plants
his sneaker on the guy's floral back and forces him forward so there's a sick crack and he feels the arm come out of the socket, and
there's a high foreign scream. The Nuck with the blade who was down slashes Gately's calf through his jeans as the guy rolls
gracefully left and starts to rise, up on one knee, knife out front, a guy that knows his knives and can't be closed with while he's
got the blade up. Gately feints and takes one giant step and gets all his weight into a Rockette kick that lands high up under the
Nuck's beard's chin and audibly breaks Gately's big toe in the sneaker and sends the man curving out back into the dazzle of the
highbeams, and there's a metallic boom of him landing on the Montego's hood and the click and skitter of the blade landing
somewhere on the street beyond the car. Gately on one foot, holding his toe, and his slashed calf feels hot. His smile is broad but
impersonal. It's impossible, outside choreographed entertainment, to fight two guys together at once; they'll kill you; the trick to
fighting two is to make sure and put one down for long enough that he's out of the picture long enough to put the other guy down.
And this first larger one with the extreme arm-trouble is clutching himself as he rolls, trying to rise, still perversely holding the
white mustache. You can tell this is a real beef because nobody's saying anything and the sounds from everybody else have
receded to the sounds stands' crowds make and Gately hops over and uses the good foot to kick the Nuck twice in the side of the
big head and then without a thought in his head moves down the guy and lines it up and drops to one knee with all his weight on
the guy's groin, resulting in an indescribable sound from the guy and a shout from J.v.D. overhead and a flat crack from the lawn
and Gately's punched so hard in the shoulder he's spun around on one knee and almost goes over backwards and the shoulder goes
hotly numb, which tells Gately he's gotten shot instead of punched in the shoulder. He never got shot before. SHOT IN
SOBRIETY in bold headline caps goes across his mind's eye like a slow train as he sees the third Nuck with his cap pushed back
and Nuck face contorted with cordite in his good stance with elbow back up drawing a second bead on Don's big head from #4's
lawn with the bore's lightless eye and a little pubic curl of smoke coming up from the vented muzzle, and Gately can't move and
forgets to pray, and then the bore zagging up and away as it blooms orange as good old Bruce Green's got the Nuck from behind
in a half-nelson with his hand in the necklace of flowers and with the other hand is forcing the cocked elbow down and the Item
skyward away from Gately's head as it blooms with that flat crack of a vented muzzle. The first thing somebody's who's shot
wants to do is throw up, which by the way the larger Nuck with the breezeblocked crotch under Gately's doing all over his beard
and flower necklace and Gately's leg's thigh as Gately weaves on one knee on the guy's groin still. The lady yells for Help. Now a
meaty thwack as Nell Gunther on the lawn leaps several twirling meters and kicks the Nuck Green's half-nelsoning in the face
with her paratrooper-boot's heel, and the guy's hat flies off and his head snaps back and hits Green's face, and there's the pop of
Green's nose breaking but he doesn't let go, and the guy's slumped forward in the Parkin-sonian half-bow of a guy in a quality
half-nelson, with the guy's Item-hand's arm still up in the air with Green's arm like they're dancing, and good old Green doesn't
even let go to hold his spurting nose, and now that the Nuck's restrained, notice, here comes Lenz barrelling in howling from the
hedge's shadows and leaping and he tackles the Nuck and Green both, and they're a roil of clothes and legs on the lawn, the Item
not in sight. Ken Erdedy still has his hands up. Gately, still kneeling shot on the Nuck's sickeningly softened groin, Gately hears
the second Nuck trying to slide himself off the hood of the Montego and hops and wobbles over. Joelle v.D. keeps yelling
something monosyllabic from what can't be her window. Don goes to the Montego's front bumper and punches the large man
carefully in the kidneys with his good arm and takes him by the thick foreign hair and slides him back up the hood and begins
banging his head off the Montego's windshield. He remembers how he'd stay in luxury furnished North Shore apts. with G.
Fackelmann and T. Kite and they'd gradually strip the place and sell the appointments off until they were sleeping in a totally bare
apartment. Green has risen bloody-faced, and Lenz is on the lawn with his heaving topcoat covering him and the third Nuck, and
Clenette H. and Yolanda W. are now up and not at bay and circling them and getting solid high-heel kicks into the Nuck's and
sometimes hopefully Lenz's ribs, reciting 'Motha-fucka' and landing a kick each time they get to fu. Gately, canted way over to the
side, methodically beats his Nuck's shaggy head against the windshield so hard that spidered stars are appearing in the shatterproof
glass until something in the head gives with a sort of liquid crunch. Petals from the guy's necklace are all over the hood and
Gately's torn shirt. Joelle v.D. in her terry robe and gauze veil and still clutching a toothbrush has climbed out onto the little
balcony outside the 5-Woman's window and into a skinny ailanthus beside it and is coming down, showing about two meters of
spectacularly undeformed thigh, shouting Gately's name by the first name, which he likes. Gately leaves the largest Nuck prone on
the idling hood, his head resting in a shatter-frosted head-shaped recession in the windshield. It occurs to Ken Erdedy, looking up
into the oak past his upraised hands, that this deformed veiled girl likes Don Gately in an extracurricular way, it would seem.
Gately, toe and shoulder or no, has looked strictly all-business this whole time. He's projected a sort of white-collar attitude of
cheery competence and sangfroid. Erdedy's found he rather likes standing there with his hands up in a gesture of noncombatant
status while the Afro-American girls curse and kick and Lenz continues to roll around with the unconscious man hitting him and
going 'There, there,' and Gately moves backward between the second fellow in the windshield and the first fellow he'd originally
disarmed, his smile now as empty as a pumpkin's grin. Chandler Foss is trying on the third fellow's plaid hunting cap. There's a
sound in #4 of somebody trying to force a warped window. An Empire W.D.V. is launched with a kind of spronging thud and
whistles overhead, climbing, its warning-light wrap of like Xmas lights winking red and green as Don Gately starts to come over
in the direction of the lawn and the fellow who appears to have winged him and then veers drunkenly and changes direction and in
three one-foot hops is over to the vomit-covered first Nuck, the one who'd called Gately Moose and punched him in the forehead.
There's the slow trundle of the Green T and exhortations from Minty as Gately begins stomping on the supine face of the Nuck
with the heel of his good foot as if he were killing cockroaches. The guy's movable arm is waggling pathetically in the air around
Gately's shoe as it rises and falls. Gately's hideous torn orange shirt's whole right side is dark and his right arm drips blackly and
seems weirdly set in its socket. Lenz is up and adjusting his wig and brushing off. The veiled girl has hit a rough part some three
meters up and is hanging from a limb and kicking, Erdedy staring Copernicanly up her flapping robe. The new Tingley kid sits
cross-legged in the grass and rocks as the black ladies continue stomping the inert Nuck. You can hear Emil Minty and Wade
McDade exhorting Yolanda W. to use the spike heel. Charlotte Treat is reciting the Serenity Prayer over and over. Bruce Green
has his head back and his finger held like a mustache under his nostrils. Hester Thrale can still be heard way off down Warren
Street, receding, as Gately wobbles back from the Nuck's map and sits heavily down in the little street, in shadow except for his
huge head in the Nucks' car's lights, sitting there with his head on his knees. Lenz and Green move in toward him the cautious way
you approach a big animal that's hurt. Joelle van Dyne lands on her feet. The lady at the high warped window shouts for
Helphelphelphelphelp. Minty and McDade come down off the back porch, finally, McDade for some reason wielding a mop.
Everybody except Lenz and Minty looks unwell.
     Joelle runs just like a girl, Erdedy notes.256246 She gets out through the many-angled cars into the street just as Gately
decides to lie down.
     It's not like passing out. It's just a decision Gately makes to like lie back with his knees bent and pointing up into the sky's
depth, which seems to bulge and recede with the pulse in his right shoulder, which has now gone dead cold, which means there
will very soon be pain, he predicts.
     He waves off concern with the left hand and goes 'Flesh-wound' the second Joelle's bare feet and robe's hem are in view.
     'Son of a fucking bitch.'
     'Flesh-wound.'
     'Are you ever bleeding.'
     'Thanks for the feedback.'
     You can hear Henderson and Willis off in the background still going 'fu.'
     'I think you can tell them he's probably subdued,' Gately pointing off in what he thinks is #4's lawn's direction. His lying flat
gives him a double-chin, he can feel, and pulls his big face into a smile. His big present fear is throwing up in front of and maybe
partly on Joelle v.D., whose calves he's noted.
     Now Lenz's lizard-skin loafers with grass stains at the toes. 'Don what can I say.'
     Gately struggles to sit back up. 'You got fucking armed Nucks wanting your ass too?'
     Revealing a kind of blackly kimonoish thing under, Joelle has taken off the terry robe and folds the robe into a kind of
trapezoidal pad and is kneeling over Gately's shoulder, straddling his arm, pressing down on the pad with the heels of her hands.
     'Owie.'
     'Lenz he's really bleeding bad here.'
     'I'm groping to even know what to begin to say, Don.'
     'You owe me urine, Lenz.'
     'I think there's two of them, like, desisted.' Wade McD.'s unlaced high-tops, his voice breathy with awe.
     'He's bleeding really bad I said.'
     'You mean deceased.'
     'There's one of their shoes in one of them's fucking eye.'
     'Tell Ken to put his hands down for Christ's sake.'
     'Oh fucking God.'
     Gately can feel his eyes crossing and uncrossing by themselves.
     'He soaking right through it man look at that shit.'
     'This man needs an ambulance.'
     Somebody else female says God again and Gately's hearing warbles a bit as Joelle snaps at her to shut up. She leans down and
in, so Gately can see up at what looks like a regular human female chin and makeupless lower lip under the veil's billowing hem.
'Whom should we call?' she asks him.
     'Call Pat's machine and Calvin. You have to dial 9. Tell them to come down.'
     'I'm going to be sick.'
     'Airdaddy!' Minty is shouting at Ken E.
     'Tell her to call Annie and the E.M. office down there and do some like strategic thing.'
     'Where the fuck is Security when it isn't just innocent recovering cars to get towed?'
     'And call Pat,' Gately says.
     A forest of footwear and bare feet and shins all around him, and heads too high to see. Lenz screaming back to somebody in
the House: 'Call a fucking ambulance already.'
     'Regulate the voice, man.'
     'Fucking call about five ambulances is more like it.'
     'Mothafucka.'
     'Ssshh.'
     'I just never saw anything like that.'
     'Nuh-uh,' Gately gasps, trying to rise and deciding he just likes it better lying down. 'Don't call one for me.'
     'This is the straight and narrow?'
     'By doze is fide.'
     'He doesn't want one he said.'
     Green's and Minty's boots, Treat's purple plastic shower-thongs. Somebody has on Clearasil, he can smell.
     'Seen some righteous ass-kickings in my past, brother, but --'
     Somebody male screams back off to the right.
     'Just don't try and walk me around,' Gately grins up.
     'Dipshit.'
     'He can't go in no E.R. with a gunshot,' Minty says to Lenz, whose shoes keep moving to get himself north of everybody.
     'Somebody turn off the car will you?'
     'I wouldn't touch nothing.'
     Gately focuses at where the Joelle girl's eyes would be. Her thighs are forked way wide to straddle his arm, which is numb
and doesn't feel like his. She's bearing down on him. She smells strange but good. She's got all her weight on her bathrobe's pad.
She weighs roughly nothing. The first threads of pain are starting to radiate out of the shoulder and down the side and into the
neck. Gately hasn't looked down at the shoulder, on purpose, and he tries to wedge his left hand's finger under the shoulder to see
if anything went through. The night's so clear the stars shine right through people's heads.
     'Green.'
     Tb dot touchig dothig, dud worry.'
      'Look at his bead.'`
      Her kimono's shoulders are humped and glassy black in the Montego's light. Gately's brain keeps wanting to go away inside
himself. When you start to feel deeply cold that's shock and blood-loss. Gately sort of wills himself to stay right here, looks over
past Joelle's hand at Lenz's fine shoes. 'Lenz. You and Green. Get me inside.'
      'Green!'
      The circle of stars' heads' faces above are all faceless from the headlights' shadows. Some car engines have shut off and some
haven't. One of the cars has a twittering fan-belt. Somebody's suggesting to call the genuine Finest -- Erdedy -- which everybody
greets with scorn at his naïveté. Gately's figuring Staff from the Shed or #4 has called them or at least dialed down to Security. By
the time he was ten only his pinkie-finger would fit in the dialer's holes of his mother's old princess phone; he exerts will to un-
cross his eyes and stay right here; he in the worst way does not want to be lying here with a gunshot in shock trying to deal with
the Finest.
      'I think one of these guys is, like, expired.'
      'No shit Shylock.'
      'Nobody call.' Gately yells it up and out. He's afraid he's going to vomit when they stand him up. 'Nobody call nobody til you
get me in.' He can smell Green's leather jacket overhead. Bits of grass and whatnot drifting down onto him from where Lenz is
still brushing off his clothes, and coins of blood on the street from Green's nose. Joelle tells Lenz if he doesn't cut something out
she's going to hand him his ass. Gately's whole right side had gone deadly cold. To Joelle he says, 'I'm Supervised. I'll go to jail
sure.'
      'You got fucking eyewitnesses out the ass behind you Don man,' either McDade or Glynn says, but it can't be Glynn, for some
reason he tries to bring up inside him. And it seems like Charlotte T.'s voice saying Ewell's trying to get in Pat's office to call but
Gately locked Pat's door.
      'Nobody call anyone!' Joelle shouts up and out. She smells good.
      'They're calling!'
      'Get him off the phone! Say prank for Christ's sake! You hear me?' Her kimono smells good. Her voice has a Staff-like
authority. The scene out here has changed: Gately's down, Madame Psychosis is in charge.
      'We're going to get him up and we're going to get him inside,' she says to the circle. 'Lenz.'
      There's impending static-crackle and the sound of a serious set of keys.
      Her voice is that one Madame lady's voice on no-subscription radio, from out of nowhere he's all of a sudden sure, is where
he heard that odd empty half-accented voice before.
      'Secyotty! Hold it right thaah.' It's at least luckily one of the ex-football E.M. Security guys, that spends half his shift down at
the Life and then goes up and down the streetlet all night playing with his service baton and singing sea chanties off-key, that's
just impressively qualified to Come In to AA with them.
      Joelle: 'Erdedy -- deal with him.'
      'Pardon me?'
      'It's the drunk,' Gately gets out.
      Joelle's looking up at presumably Ken E. 'Go over and look high-income and respectable at him. Verbalize at him. Distract
him while we get him inside before the real ones come.'
      'How am I supposed to explain all these prone figures draped over cars?'
      'For Christ's sake Ken he's not a mental titan -- distract him with something shiny or something. Get your thumb out of your
ass and move.'
      Gately's smile has reached his eyes. 'You're Madame on the FM, is how I knew you.'
      Erdedy's squeaky shoe and the obese guy's radio and keys. 'Who hold it? As in desist?'
      'Secyotty I said halt!'
      Green and Lenz bending in, white breath all over and Green's dripping nose the same copper smell as Lenz.
      'I knew I knew you,' Gately says to Joelle, whose veil remains inscrutable.
      'If I could ask you to specify halt from what.'
      'Get his back up here first,' Green tells Lenz.
      'Not crazy about all this blood,' Lenz is saying.
      Many hands slide under his back; the shoulder blooms with colorless fire. The sky looks so 3-D you could like dive in. The
stars distend and sprout spikes. Joelle's warm legs shift with her weight to keep pressure on the pad. The squishing sound Gately
knows means the robe's soaked through. He wants somebody to congratulate him for not having thrown up. You can tell some of
the stars are nearer and some far, down there. What Gately's always thought of as the Big Question Mark is really the Big Dipper.
      'I'm oddering desist until who's in change that I can repot the sichation.' The Security guy's hammered, his name's Sidney or
Stanley and he wears his Security-hat and baton shopping in the Purity Supreme and always asks Gately how it's hanging. His
shoes' uppers are blasted along the feet's in-sides the way fat men that have to walk a lot's are; his ex-ballplayer's col-lops and big
hanging gut are one of Gately's great motivators for nightly situps. Gately turns his head to throw up a little on both Green and
Joelle, who both ignore it.
      'Oh sorry. Oh shit I hate that.'
      Joelle v.D. runs a hand down Gately's wet arm that leaves a warm wake, the hand, and then gently squeezes as much of the
wrist as she can get her hand around. 'And Lo,' she says softly.
      'Jesus his leg's all bloody too.'
      'Boy do I know guys loved that show you did.' A tiny bit more throwing up.
      'Now we're going to lift him very gently and get the feet under.'
      'Here Green man get over here on the south why don't you.'
      'I'm oddering the whole sitchation halt it right thaah wheyaah.'
      Lenz and Green's shoes coming together and moving apart at either side of Gately, faces coming down in a fish-eye lens,
lifting:
      'Ready?'