      Gately's cognomen growing up and moving through public grades had been Bim or Bimmy, or The Simulator, etc., from the
acronymic B.I.M., 'Big Indestructible Moron.' This was on Boston's North Shore, mostly Beverly and Salem. His head had been
huge, even as a kid. By the time he hit puberty at twelve the head seemed a yard wide. A regulation football helmet was like a
beanie on him. His coaches had to order special helmets. Gately was worth the cost. Every coach past 6th grade told him he was a
lock for a Division 1 college team if he bore down and kept his eye on the prize. Memories of half a dozen different neckless,
buzz-cut, and pre-infarcted coaches all condense around a raspy emphasis on bearing down and predictions of a limitless future
for Don G., Bimmy G., right up until he dropped out in high school's junior year.
     Gately went both ways -- fullback on offense, outside linebacker on D. He was big enough for the line, but his speed would
have been wasted there. Already carrying 230 pounds and bench-pressing well over that, Gately clocked a 4.4 40 in 7th grade, and
the legend is that the Beverly Middle School coach ran even faster than that into the locker room to jack off over the stopwatch.
And his biggest asset was his outsized head. Gately's. The head was indestructible. When they needed yards, they'd shift to isolate
Gately on one defender and get him the ball and he'd lower his head and charge, eyes on the turf. The top of his special helmet
was like a train's cowcatcher coming at you. Defenders, pads, helmets, and cleats bounced off the head, often in different
directions. And the head was fearless. It was like it had no nerve endings or pain receptors or whatever. Gately amused teammates
by letting them open and close elevator doors on the head. He let people break things over the head -- lunchboxes, cafeteria trays,
bespectacled wienies' violin cases, lacrosse sticks. By age thirteen he never had to buy beers: he'd bet some kid a six he could take
a shot with this or that object to the head. His left ear is permanently kind of gnarled from elevator-door impacts, and Gately
favors a kind of long-sided Prince Valiantish bowl-cut to help cover the misshapen ear. One cheekbone still has a dented violet
cast from 10th grade when a North Reading kid at a party bet him a twelve-pack on a shot with a sock full of nickels and then
clocked him under the eye with it instead of the skull. It took Beverly's whole offensive line to pull Gately off what was left of the
kid. The juvenile line on Gately was that he was totally jolly and laid-back and easygoing up to a certain point but that if you
crossed that point with him you better be able to beat a 4.4 40.
     He was always kind of a boys' boy. He had a jolly ferocity about him that scared girls. And he had no idea how to deal with
girls except to try and impress them by letting them watch somebody do something to his head. He was never what you'd call a
ladies' man. At parties he was always at the center of the crowd that drank instead of dancing.
     It was surprising, maybe, given Gately's size and domestic situation, that he wasn't a bully. He wasn't kindly or heroic or a
defender of the weak; it's not like he stepped kindly in to protect wienies and misfits from the preda-tions of those kids that were
bullies. He just had no interest in brutalizing the weak. It's still not clear to him if this was to his credit or not. Things might have
been different if the M.P. had ever knocked Gately around instead of focusing all his attention on the progressively weaker Mrs.
G.
     He smoked his first duBois at age nine, a hard little needle-thin joint bought off jr.-high niggers and smoked with three other
grade-school football players in a vacant summer cottage one had the key to, watching broadcast-televised niggers run amok in a
flaming L.A. CA after some Finest got home-movied crewing on a nigger in the worst way. Then his first real drunk a few months
later, after he and the players'd hooked up with an Orkin man that liked to get kids all blunt on screwdrivers and that wore
brownshirts and jackboots in his off-hours and lectured them about Zog and The Turner Diaries while they'd drink the OJ and
vodka he'd bought them and look at him blandly and roll their eyes at each other. Soon none of the football players Gately hung
with were interested in much of anything except trying to get high and holding air-guitar and pissing contests and talking
theoretically about Xing big-haired North Shore girls, and trying to think up things to break over Gately's head. They all had like
domestic situations too. Gately was the only one of them truly dedicated to football, and that was probably just because he'd been
told over and over that he had real talent and limitless futures. He was classified Attention-Deficit and Special-Ed, from grade
school on, with particular Deficits in 'Language Arts,' but that was at least partly because Mrs. G. could barely read and Gately
wasn't interested in making her feel worse. And but there was no Deficit in his attention to ball, or to cold foamers or screwdrivers
or high-resin desBois, or especially to applied pharmacology, not once he'd done his first Quaalude362352 at age thirteen.
     Just as Gately's whole recall of his screwdriver-and-sinsemilla beginnings tends to telescope into one memory of pissing
orange juice into the Atlantic (he and the blunt cruel Beverly players and bullies he partied with drinking whole quarts of throat-
warming OJ at a shot and standing ankle-deep in grit on a North Shore shore, facing east and sending long arcs of legal-pad-
yellow piss into onrushing breakers that came in and creamed around their feet, the foam warm and yellow-shot with their piss --
like spitting into the wind -- Gately at the podium had started saying it turns out he was pissing on himself right from the start,
with alcohol), in just the same way, the whole couple years before he discovered oral narcotics, the whole period 13-15 when he
was a devotee of Quaaludes and Hefenreffer-brand beer collapses and gathers itself under what he still recalls as 'The Attack of
the Killer Sidewalks.' Quaaludes and Hefenreffer also marked Gately's entree into a whole new rather more sinister and less
athletic social set at B.M.S., one member of which was Trent Kite,363353 a dyed-in-wool laptop-carrying wienie, chinless and
with a nose like a tapir, and pretty much the last fanatical Grateful Dead fan under age forty on the U.S. East Coast, whose place
of honor in the sinister Beverly Middle School drug-set was due entirely to his gift for transforming the kitchen of any vacationing
parents' house into a rudimentary pharmaceutical laboratory, using like BBQ-sauce bottles as Erlenmeyer Flasks and microwave
ovens to cyclize OH and carbon into three-ring compounds, synthesizing methylenedioxy psychedelics364354 from nutmeg and
sassafras oil, ether from charcoal-starter, designer meth from Tryptophan and L-Histidine, sometimes using only a gas-top range
and parental Farberware, able even to decoct usable concentrations of tetra-hydrofruan from PVC Pipe Cleaner -- which at that
time best of British luck ordering tetrahydrofruan from any chemical company in the 48 con tigs/6 provinces without getting paid
an immediate visit by D.E.A. guys in three-piece suits and reflecting shades -- and then using the tetrahydrofruan and ethanol and
any protein-binding catalyst to turn plain old Sominex into something just one H3C molecule away from good old biphasic metha-
qualone, a.k.a. the intrepid Quaalude. Kite had called his Quaalude-isotopes 'QuoVadis,' and they were a great favorite for 13-15-
year-old Bimmy G. and the slouched sharp-haired sinister set he dropped Ludes and QuoVadises with, washing them down with
Hefenreffers, resulting in a kind of mnemonic brown-out where the entire two-year interval -- the same interval during which the
ex-M.P. found somebody else, a Newburyport divorcee who apparently put up a more sporting fight than Mrs. G., and decamped
in his sticker-covered Ford with his seaman's bag and pea-coat -- the whole period's become in Gately's sober memory just the
vague era of The Attack of the Killer Sidewalks. Quaaludes and 16-oz. Hefenreffers awakened Gately and his new droogs to the
usually-dormant-but-apparently-ever-lurking ill will of innocent-seeming public sidewalks everywhere. You didn't have to be
brainy Trent Kite to figure out the equation (Quaaludes) + (not even that many beers) = getting whapped by the nearest sidewalk
-- as in you're walking innocently along down a sidewalk and out of nowhere the sidewalk comes rushing up to meet you:
WHAP. Happened time after fucking time. It made the whole crew resent having to walk anywhere on QuoVadises because of not
having driver's licenses yet, which gives you some idea of the sum-total I.Q. brought to bear on the problem of the Attacks. A tiny
permanent cast in his left eye and what looks like a chin-dimple are Gately's legacy from the period before moving up to
Percocets, which one advantage of the move deeper into oral narcs was that Percocets + Hefenreffers didn't allow you even
enough upright mobility to make you vulnerable Co sidewalks' ever-lurking ill will.
     It was amazing that none of this stuff seemed much to hurt Gately's performance playing ball, but then he was as devoted to
football as he was to oral CNS-depressants. At least for a while. He had disciplined personal rules back then. He absorbed
Substances only at night, after practice. Not so much as a fractional foamer between 0900h. and 1800h. during the seasons of
practice and play, and he settled for just a single duBois on Thursday evenings before actual games. During football season he
ruled himself with an iron hand until the sun set, then threw himself on the mercy of sidewalks and the somnolent hum. He used
class to catch up on REM-sleep. By freshman year he was starting on the Beverly-Salem H.S. Minutemen Varsity and was on
academic probation. Most of the sinister set he'd hung with were expelled for truancy or trafficking or worse by sophomore year.
Gately kept hanging in and on til seventeen.
     But Quaaludes and QuoVadis and Percocets are lethal in terms of homework, especially washed down with Hefenreffer, and
extra-especially if you're academically ambivalent and A.D.D.-classified and already using every particle of your self-discipline
protecting football from the Substances. And -- unhappily -- high school is totally unlike higher education in terms of major-
sport coaches' influence over instructors, athletes-and-grades-wise. Kite got Gately through math and Special Ed. science, and the
French teacher was getting her strabysmic eyeballs fucked out by the Minutemen's tanned lounge-lizard of an Offensive
Coordinator on the behalf of Gately and a semi-retarded tight end. But English just fucking killed him, Gately. All four of the
English teachers the Athletic Dept. tried Gately on had this sieg-heil idea that it was somehow cruel to pass a kid that couldn't do
the work. And the Athletic Dept. pointing out to them that Gately had an especially challenging domestic situation and that
flunking Gately and rendering him ineligible for ball would eliminate his one reason even to stay on in school -- these were to no,
like, aveil. English was his sink-or-swim situation, what he then termed his 'Water Lou.' Term papers he could more or less swing;
the football coach had wienies on retainer. But the in-class themes and tests killed Gately, who simply didn't have enough will left
over after sunset to choose like the crushingly dull Ethan From over QuoVadis and Hefenreffer. Plus by this time three different
schools' authorities had him convinced he was basically dumb, anyway. But mostly it was the Substances. This one particular B.-
S.H.S.-Athletic-Dept.-hired wienie of an English tutor spent a sophomore-year March's worth of evenings in Gately's company,
and by Easter the kid weighed 95 pounds and had a nose-ring and hand-tremors and was placed by his frantic, functional parents
in a juvenile-intervention rehab, where the wienie's whole first week of Withdrawal was spent in a corner reciting Howl in high-
volume Chaucerian English. Gately flunked Sophomore Comp. in May and lost the fall's eligibility and withdrew from school for
a year to preserve his junior season. And but then, without the only other thing he'd been devoted to, the psychic emergency-brake
was off, and Gately's sixteenth year is still mostly a gray blank, except for his mother's new red chintz TV-watching couch, and
also the acquaintance of an accommodating Rite-Aid pharmacist's assistant with disfiguring eczema and serious gambling debts.
Plus memories of terrible rear-ocular itching and of a basic diet of convenience-store crud, plus the vegetables from his mother's
vodka glass, while she slept. When he finally returned for his sophomore year of class and junior year of ball at seventeen and 284
lbs., Gately was enervated, flabby, apparently narcoleptic, and on a need-schedule so inflexible that he needed 15 mg. of good old
oxycodone hydro-chloride out of his pocket's Tylenol bottle every three hours to keep the shakes off. He was like a huge confused
kitten out on the field -- the coach made him go in for P.E.T. Scans, fearing M.S. or Lou Gehrig's -- and even the Classic Comics
version of Ethan From was now beyond his abilities; and good old Kite was gone by that last September of Unsubsidized Time,
admitted early on a full ride in Comp. Science by Salem State U., meaning Gately was now on his own in remedial math and
chem. On offense, Gately lost his starting spot in the third game to a big clear-eyed freshman the coach said showed nearly
limitless potential. Then Mrs. Gately suffered her cirrhotic hemorrhage and cerebral-blood thing in late October, just before the
midterms Gately was getting ready to fail. Bored-eyed guys in white cotton blew blue bubbles and loaded her in the back of a
leisurely sirenless ambulance and took her first to the hospital and then to a Medicaid L.T.I.365355 out across the Yirrell Beach
span in Pt. Shirley. The backs of Gately's eyes were too itchy for him to even be able to stand out on the red pocked stoop's steps
and see to wave adios. The first gasper he ever smoked was that day, a 100 out of a half-finished pack of his mother's generics,
that she left. He didn't even ever go back to B.-S.H.S. to clean out his lockers. He never played organized ball again.