      WEDNESDAY 11 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
      Lenz wears a worsted topcoat and dark slacks and Brazilian loafers with a high-wattage shine and a disguise that makes him
look like Andy Warhol with a tan. Bruce Green wears a cheesy off-the-rack leather jacket of stiff cheap leather that makes the
jacket creak when he breathes.
      'This is when you man this is when you find out your like what like true character, is when it's pointed right at you and some
bugeyed fucking spic's not five mitts230220 away pointing it, and I strangely I get real calm see and said I said Pepito I said I
Pepito man you go on and do what you need to do man go on and shoot but man you better I mean fucking better kill me with the
first shot man or you won't get another one I said. Not even bullshitting man I'm serious it's like I found right then I meant it. You
know what I'm saying?' Green lights both their smokes. Lenz exhales with that hiss of people in a rush to drive their point home.
'You know what I'm saying?'
      'I don't know.'
      It's an urban November P.M.: very last leaves down, dry gray hairy grass, brittle bushes, gap-toothed trees. The rising moon
looks like it doesn't feel very well. The click of Lenz's loafers and the crunchy thud of Green's old asphalt-spreader's boots with
the thick black soles. Green's little noises of attention and assent. He says he's been broken by life, is all he'll personally say.
Green. Life has kicked his ass, and he's regrouping. Lenz likes him, and there's always this slight hangnail of fear, like clinging,
whenever he likes somebody. It's like something terrible could happen at any time. Less fear than a kind of tension in the region of
stomach and ass, an all-body wince. Deciding to go ahead and think somebody's a stand-up guy: it's like you drop something, you
give up all of your power over it: you have to stand there impotent waiting for it to hit the ground: all you can do is brace and
wince. It kind of enrages Lenz to like somebody. There would be no way to say any of this out loud to Green. As it gets past
22OOh. and the meatloaf in his pocket's baggie's gotten dark and hard from disuse the pressure to exploit the c. 2216 interval for
resolution builds to a terrible pitch, but Lenz still can't yet quite get it up to ask Green to walk back some other way at least once
in a while. How does he do it and still have Green know he thinks he's OK? But you don't come right out there and let somebody
hear you say you think they're OK. When it's a girl you're just trying to X it's a different thing, straightforwarder; but like for
instance where do you look with your eyes when you tell somebody you like them and mean what you say? You can't look right at
them, because then what if their eyes look at you as your eyes look at them and you lock eyes as you're saying it, and then there'd
be some awful like voltage or energy there, hanging between you. But you can't look away like you're nervous, like some nervous
kid asking for a date or something. You can't go around giving that kind of thing of yourself away. Plus the knowing that the
whole fucking thing's not worth this kind of wince and stress: the whole thing's enraging. The afternoon of tonight earlier at circa
1610h. Lenz'd sprayed RIJID-brand male hairspray in the face of a one-eyed Ennet House stray cat that had wandered by
mischance into the men's head upstairs, but the result: unsatisfying. The cat had just run away downstairs, clunking into the
bannister only once. Lenz then got diarrhea, which always disgusts him, and he had to stay in the head and open the little warped
frosted-glass window and run the shower on C until the smell's evidence cleared, with fucking Glynn pounding on the door and at-
tracting attention howling about who's flailing the whale in there all this time is it by any chance Lenz. But then how would he be
supposed to act henceforward toward Green if he blows him off and says to let him walk solo home? How would he be supposed
to act if it'd seemed like he'd like spurned Green? What does he henceforward say if he and Green pass each other in the aisle at
Saturday Night Lively or both reach for the same sandwich at the raffle-break at White Flag, or get caught standing there half-
naked in towels in the hall waiting for somebody to get out of the shower? What if he like spurns Green and Green ends up in the
3-Man room while Lenz is still in there and they have to room together and interface constantly? And if Lenz tries to temper the
spurning by telling Green he likes him, where the fuck is he supposed to look when he says it? If trying to X a female species
Lenz would have nullo problemo with where to look. He'd have no problem with looking deep into some bitch's eyes and looking
so sincere it's like he's dying inside him. Or if like assuring a bad-complected Brazilian he hadn't stepped on a half-kilo three
separate times with Ino-sitol.231221 Or if high: zero problem. If he got high, he'd have no problem telling somebody he liked him
even if he really did. For it'd give his spirits a voltage that'd more than overweigh whatever upsetting voltage might hang in the air
between somebody. A few lineskers and there'd be no stress-issues about telling Bruce G. with all due respects to screw, go peddle
his papers, go play in the freeway, go play with a chain saw, go find a short pier, that no disrespect but Lenz needed to fly solo in
the urban night. So after the incident with the cat and diarrhea and some hard words with D. R. Glynn, who was slumped holding
his abdomen down against the south wall of the upstairs hall, Lenz decides enough is enough and goes and gets a little square of
foil off the industrial roll Don G. keeps under the Ennet sink and goes and takes a half-gram, maybe a gram at most out of the
emergency stash out of the vault-thing he's razored out of the Principles of Natural Lectures. Far from your scenario of relapsing,
the Bing is medicinal support for assertively sharing his need for aloneness with Green, so that issues of early sobriety can get
resolved before standing in the way of spiritual growth -- Lenz will use cocaine in the very interests of sobriety and growth itself.
      So then like strategically, at the Brookline Young People's Mtg. over on Beacon near the Newton line on a Wednesday, at the
raffle-break, at 2109h., Lenz moistens his half-gasper and puts it carefully back in the pack and yawns and stretches and does a
quick pulse-check and gets up and saunters casually into the Handicapped head with the lockable door and the big sort of crib
built around the shitter itself for crippled lowering onto the toilet and does like maybe two, maybe three generous lines of Bing off
the top of the toilet-tank and wipes the tank-top off both before and after with wet paper towels, ironically rolling up the same
crisp buck he'd brought for the meeting's collection and utilizing it and cleaning it thoroughly with his finger and rubbing his gums
with the finger and then putting his head way back in the mirror to check the kidney-shaped nostrils of his fine aqua-line nose for
clinging evidence in the trim hair up there and tasting the bitter drip in the back of his frozen throat and taking the clean rolled
buck and back-rolling it and smoothing it out and hammering it with his fist on the lip of the sink and folding it neatly into half of
half its original Treasury Dept. size so that all evidence anybody ever even had a passing thought of rolling the buck into a hard
tight tube is, like, anìleated. Then sauntered back out like butter wouldn't soften anywhere on his body, knowing just where to
look at all times and casually hefting his balls before he sat back down.
      And then aside from the every so often hemispasm of the mouth and right eye he hides via the old sunglasses and pretend-
cough tactic the second half of the mtg.'s endless oratory goes fine, he supposes, even though he did smoke almost a whole
expensive pack of gaspers in 34 minutes, and the holier-than-you Young-People AAs over in what were supposed to be the
Nonsmoking rows of chairs against the east wall to his right shot him over some negative-type looks when perchance he happened
to find he had one going in the little tin ashtray and two at once going in his mouth, but Lenz was able to play the whole thing off
with insousistent aplomb, sitting there in his aviator sunglasses with his legs crossed and his topcoated arms resting out along the
backs of the empty chairs on either side.
      The night-noises of the metro night: harbor-wind skirling on angled cement, the shush and sheen of overpass traffic, TPs'
laughter in interior rooms, the yowl of unresolved cat-life. Horns blatting off in the harbor. Receding sirens. Confused inland
gulls' cries. Broken glass from far away. Car horns in gridlock, arguments in languages, more broken glass, running shoes, a
woman's either laugh or scream from who can tell how far, coming off the grid. Dogs defending whatever dog-yards they pass by,
the sounds of chains and risen hackles. The podiatric click and thud, the visible breath, gravel's crunch, creak of Green's leather,
the snick of a million urban lighters, the gauzy far-off humming ATHSCMEs pointing out true plumb north, the clunk and tinkle
of stuff going into dumpsters and rustle of stuff in dumpsters settling and skirl of wind on the sharp edges of dumpsters and
unmistakable clanks and tinkles of dumpster-divers and can-miners going after dumpsters' cans and bottles, the district
Redemption Center down in West Brighton and actually even boldly sharing a storefront with Liquor World liquor store, so the
can-miners can do like one-stop redeeming and shopping. Which Lenz finds repellent to the maximus, and shares the feelings with
Green. Lenz observes to Green how myriadly ironic are the devices by which the Famous Crooner's promise to Clean Up Our
Urban Cities has come to be kept. The noises parallaxing in from out over the city's winking grid, at night. The wooly haze of
monoxides. You got your faint cuntstink of the wind off the Bay. Planes' little crucifi of landing lights well ahead of their own
noise. Crows in trees. You got your standard crepuscular rustles. Ground floors' lit windows laying little rugs of light out into their
lawns. Porch lights that go on automatically when you stroll by. A threnody of sirens somewhere north of the Charles. Bare trees
creaking in the wind. The State Bird of Massachusetts, he shares to Green, is the police siren. To Project and to Swerve. The cries
and screams from out across who knows how many blocks, who knows the screams' intent. Sometimes the end of the scream is at
the sound of the start of the scream, he opines. The visible breath and the rainbowed rings of streetlights and headlights through
that breath. Unless the screams are really laughing. Lenz's own mother's laugh had sounded like she was being eaten alive.
      Except -- after the maybe five total lines hoovered in a totally purposive medicinal nonrecreational spirit -- except then
instead of assuring Green he's a blue-chip commodity on Lenz's Exchange but to please screw and let Lenz stroll home solo with
his meatloaf and agenda, it eventuates that Lenz has again miscalculated the effect the Bing's hydrolysis232222 will have, he
always like previsions the effect as cool nonchalant verbal sangfroid, but instead Lenz on the way home finds himself under huge
hydrolystic compulsion to have Green right there by his side -- or basically anyone who can't get away or won't go away -- right
there with him, and to share with Green or any compliant ear pretty much every experience and thought he's ever had, to give each
datum of the case of R. Lenz shape and visible breath as his whole life (and then some) tear-asses across his mind's arctic horizon,
trailing phosphenes.
      He tells Green that his phobic fear of timepieces stems from his stepfather, an Amtrak train conductor with deeply unresolved
issues which he used to make Lenz wind his pocketwatch and polish his fob daily with a chamois cloth and nightly make sure his
watch's displayed time was correct to the second or else he'd lay into the pint-sized Randy with a rolled-up copy of Track and
Flange, a slick and wicked-heavy coffee-table-sized trade periodical.
      Lenz tells Green how spectacularly obese his own late mother had been, using his arms to dramatically illustrate the
dimensions involved.
      He breathes between about every third or fourth fact, ergo about once a block.
      Lenz tells Green the plots of several books he's read, confabulating them.
      Lenz doesn't notice the way Green's face sort of crumples blankly when Lenz mentions the issue of late mothers.
     Lenz euphorically tells Green how he once got the tip of his left finger cut off in a minibike chain once and how but within
days of intensive concentration the finger had grown back and regenerated itself like a lizard's tail, confounding doctoral
authorities. Lenz says that was the incident in youth after which he got in touch with his own unusual life-force and energois de
vivre and knew and accepted that he was somehow not like the run of common men, and began to accept his uniqueness and all
that it entailed.
     Lenz clues Green in on it's a myth the Nile crocodile is the most dreaded species of crocodile, that the dreaded Estuarial
crocodile of saltwater habits is a billion times more dreaded by those in the know.
     Lenz theorizes that his compulsive need to know the time with microspic precision is also a function of his stepfather's
dysfunctional abuse regarding the pocketwatch and Track and Flange. This segues into an analysis of the term dysfunction and its
revelance to the distinctions between, say, psychology and natural religion.
     Lenz tells how once in the Back Bay on Boylston outside Bonwit's a pushy prosthesis-vendor gave him a hard time about a
glass-eye item of jewelry and got his issues' juices flowing and then down the prosthesis-vendor line another vendor simply would
not take No of any sort about a bottle of A.D.A.-Approved Xero-Lube Saliva Substitute with a confabulated celeb-endorsement
from J. Gentle F. Crooner on it and Lenz utilized akido to break the man's nose with one blow and then drive the bone's shards and
fragments up into the vendor's brain with the follow-up heel of his hand, a maneuver known by a secret ancient Chinese term
meaning The Old One-Two, eliminating the saliva guy's map on the spot, so that Lenz had learned about the lethality of his
whatever-was-beyond-black belt in akido and his hands' deadliness as weapons when his issues were provoked and tells Green
how he'd taken a solemn vow right there, running like hell down Boylston for the Auditorium T-Stop to evade prosecution, vowed
never to use his lethally adept akido skills except in the most compulsory situation of defending the innocent and/or weak.
     Lenz tells Green how once he was at a Halloween party where a hydro-cephalic woman wore a necklace made of dead gulls.
     Lenz shares about this recurving dream where he's seated under a tropical ceiling fan in a cane chair wearing an L.L. Bean
safari hat and holding a wickerware valise in his lap, and that's all, and that's the recurving dream.
     On the 400 block of W. Beacon, around 22O2h., Lenz demonstrates for Bruce Green the secret akido 1-2 with which he'd
demapped the saliva-monger, breaking the move down into slo-mo constituent movements so that Green's untrained eye could
follow. He says there's another recurving nightmare about a clock with hands frozen eternally at 1830 that's so trouser-foulingly
scary he won't even burden Green's fragile psychology with the explicits of it.
     Green, lighting both their smokes, says he either doesn't remember his dreams or doesn't dream.
     Lenz adjusts his white toupee and mustache in a darkened InterLace outlet's window, does the odd bit of t'ai-chi stretching,
and blows his nose into W. Beacon's cluttered gutter Euro-style, one nostril at a time, arching to keep his coatfront well back from
what he expels.
     Green's one of these muscle-shirt types that carries his next gasper tucked up over his ear, which the use of RIJID or other
brands of quality hair-fixative makes impossible for the reason that residues of spray on the cigarette cause it to burst
unexpectedly into flame at points along its length. Lenz regales how at that Halloween Party with the necklace of birds there'd
been allegedly a Concavity-refugee infant there, at the party, at the home of a South Boston orthodontist that dealt Lidocaine to
Bing-retailers on the prescriptional dicky,233223 a normal-size and unferal infant but totally without a skull, lying in a kind of
raised platform or dais by the fireplace with its shapeless and deskulled head-region supported and, like (shuddering), contained in
a sort of lidless plastic box, and its eyes were sunk way down in its face, which was the consistency of like quicksand, the face,
and its nose concave and its mouth hanging out over either side of the boneless face, and the total head had like conformed to the
inside of the containing box it was contained in, the head, and appeared roughly square in overall outline, the head, and the
woman with the lei of gull-heads and other persons in costumes had ingested hallucinogens and drank mescal and ate the little
worms in the mescal and had performed circled rituals around the box and platform around 2355h., worshipping the infant, or as
they termed it simply The Infant, as if there were only One.
     Green lets Lenz know the time at roughly two-minute intervals, maybe once a block, from his cheap but digital watch, when
the critical B.B.S.B. liquid-crystal sign is obscured by the urban night's strolling skyline.
     Lenz's labial writhing occurs worst on diphthongs involving o-sounds.
     Lenz clues Green in that AA/NA works all right but there's no fucking question it's a cult, he and Green've apparently got
themselves to the point where the only way out of the addictive tailspin is to enlist in a fucking cult and let them try and brainwash
your ass, and that the first person tries to lay a saffron robe or tambourine on Lenz is going to be one very sorry cableyar-row
indeed, is all.
     Lenz claims to remember some experiences which he says happened to him in vitro.
     Lenz says the Ennet graduates who often come back and take up living-room space sitting around comparing horror stories
about former religious cults they'd tried joining as part of their struggle to try to quit with the drugs and alcohol are not w/o a
certain naïve charm but are basically naïve. Lenz details that robes and mass weddings and head-shaving and pamphleteering in
airports and selling flowers on median strips and signing away inheritances and never sleeping and marrying whoever they tell
you and then never seeing who you marry are small potatoes in terms of bizarre-cult criterion. Lenz tells Green he knows
individuals who've heard shit that would blow Green's mind out his ear-sockets.