     He says 'I'm Mikey, alcoholic and addict and a sick fuck, you know what I'm saying?'
     And they laugh and shout out 'You definitely are' as he stands there rocking the podium slightly, blurred a bit through the
linen, smearing one side of his face with a laborer's hand as he tries to think what to say. It's another of these round-robin-speaker
deals, each speaker picking the next from the smoky lunchtime crowd, jogging up to the fiberboard podium trying to think what to
say, and how, for the five minutes each is allotted. The chairperson at the table up by the podium has a clock and a novelty-shop
gong.
     'Well,' he says, "well so I seen some of the old Mikey come back out yesterday, you know what I'm saying? Fucking scared
me to see it. What it was, I was going to take my kid down to the lanes and bowl a couple. With my kid. Who he just got the cast
off. So I'm all happy and whatnot, got the day off, see the kid. Quality sober time with the kid. So on and so forth. So I'm all on
the happy wagon and like that, about seeing the kid, you know what I'm saying? So, what, so I call up my cunt of a sister. He's
living back with them, with Ma and my sister, so I'm calling up my sister to see can I come get the kid at such-and-such time and
whatnot. Because you know how the judge said I got to get one of them's fucking consent to even see my kid. You know what I'm
saying? Because of the restraining order on the old Mikey, from before. I got to get their permission. And I, what, accept that, I
say OK, so I'm calling up all accepting and on the happy wagon for my sister to consent, and she out of the goodness of her heart
she makes me wait while she says she's got to check it with Ma. And they consent, finally. And I, what, accept that, you know
what I'm saying? And I say I was going to be there at such-and-such time and whatnot, and my sister says ain't I even going to say
thank you? Like with the attitude, you know what I'm saying? And I say 't the fuck, what, you want a fucking medal for letting me
see my own kid? And the cunt hangs up on me. Oh. Fucking oh. Ever since the judge with the order, it's with the attitude over
there, the cunt and Ma both. So after she just hangs up on me a little of the old Mikey I think starts to come out and I go over there
and yes all right I got to be honest I do I park on the grass of their fucking lawn, and I go up and go up and I see her and I'm like
Fuck you you cunt, and Ma's in the hall behind her in the door, I go Fucking hang up on me why don't you, you should go for
some fucking counselling you know what I'm saying? And they don't neither one of them like that verbal comment too much,
right? The cunt almost starts laughing and goes, like, I'm telling her to go for counseling?'
     Crowd-laughter.
     'I mean I ain't exactly coming over there with long-term sobriety, right? And I accept that. But the cunt's got the hook on the
door and she's going Who the fuck are you to be telling me to go for fucking counselling after the sick fucking little like stunt you
and that bimbo pulled on that kid who only just now even got the cast off? Oh, and no sign of the fucking kid anywhere. Just her
and Ma through the screen door, all over the place with the attitude. And now they tell me to get the fuck off their porch, No they
tell me, as in like Permission Denied, consent to see my own kid fucking refused. And the cunt still in her fucking bathrobe after
noon, and Ma behind her half in the bag already and hanging on to the fucking wall. You know what I'm saying? My serenity's
like: See yaa! And I say up boat-ayouse's asses, I'm here for my goddamn kid. And now my sister says she's going for the phone,
and Ma's saying The fuck, get the fuck out, Mikey. And plus did I mention no sign of the kid, and I ain't to even like touch the
screen door, not without consent. And I'm wanting to fucking kill somebody here, you know what I'm saying? And my sister's
getting the antenna out on the phone, and so I go OK I'm fucking leaving, but I like grab my balls at the both of them and go Eat
me the boatayouse, you know what I'm saying? Cause now it's the old Mikey back, and now / got with the attitude now, also. I'm
wanting to light my cunt of a sister up so bad I can't hardly see to get the truck off the lawn and leave. But and so and but so I'm
driving back home, and I'm so mad I all of a sudden try and pray. And I try and pray, driving along and whatnot, and it comes to
me I see irregarding of their fucked-up attitude I still need to go back and apologize irregardless, for grabbing my balls at them,
cause that's old fucking behavior. I see for my own sobriety's sake I need to go back and try and say I'm sorry. The thought of it
just about makes me puke, you know what I'm -- but I go back and pull the truck up out front on the street and pray and go back
up on the porch, and I fucking apologize, and I go to my sister Please can I at least see the kid to see the cast off, and the cunt goes
Fuck you, get the fuck out, we don't accept your fucking apology. And no sign of Ma, and the fucking kid there's no sign of him,
so I got to accept her word and don't even know for sure if the cast is even off. But why I needed to share I think is it scared me. I
scared me, you know what I'm saying? I was at the counsellor's after and I told him I go I got to get some kind of hold on this
fucking temper or I'm going to end up right back in front of the fucking judge for lighting somebody up again, you know what I'm
saying? And God fucking forbid it should be somebody that's in my family, because I been that route once too many times
already. And I go like Am I nuts, Dr., or what? Do I got a like death-wish or what? You know what I'm saying? The cast just only
now finally comes off and I'm wanting to light up the fucking cunt that's got to consent I should get closer than a hundred m.'s to
the kid? Is it like I'm trying to set myself up for a drink or what exactly is it with this spring-loaded temper, if I'm sober? The
temper and judge is why I fucking got sober in the first place. So what the fuck is this? Well fuck me. I'm just grateful I got some
of that out. It's been up in my head, renting space, you know what I'm saying? I see Vinnie's getting ready to fucking gong me. I
want to hear from Tommy E. back there against the wall. Yo Tommy! What are you, spanking the hog back there or what? But
I'm just glad to be here. I just wanted to get some of that shit out.'