     The heavy-tongued English of Steeply was even more difficult to understand with a cigarette in the mouth. He said, 'And
you'll of course report this little interface of you and me right back to Fortier.'
     Marathe shrugged. ' 'n sûr.'
      Steeply got it lit. He was a large and soft man, some type of brutal-U.S.-contact-sport athlete now become fat. He appeared to
Marathe to look less like a woman than a twisted parody of womanhood. Electrolysis had caused patches of tiny red pimples along
his jowls and upper lip. He also held his elbow out, the arm holding the match for lighting, which is how no woman lights a
cigarette, who is used to breasts and keeps the lighting elbow in. Also Steeply teetered ungracefully on his pumps' heels on the
stone's uneven surface. He never for a moment turned his back completely at Marathe as he stood on the lip of the outcropping.
And Marathe had his chair's wheels' clamps now locked down tight and a firm grip on the machine pistol's pebbled grip. Steeply's
purse was small and glossy black, and the sunglasses he wore had womanly frames with small false jewels at the temples. Mar-
athe believed that something in Steeply enjoyed his grotesque appearance and craved the humiliation of the field-disguises his
B.S.S. superiors requested of him.
      Steeply now looked at him, in probability, behind the dark glasses. 'And also that I just right now asked you if you'd report it,
and that you said bien sûr?'
      Marathe's laugh had this misfortune to sound false and overhearty, whether or not sincere. He made a mustache of his finger,
pretending for some reason to stifle a need to sneeze. 'You verify this because of why?'
      Steeply scratched under the hem of his blonde wig with (stupidly, dangerously) the thumb of his hand that held the cigarette.
'Well you are already tripling, Rémy, aren't you? Or would it be quadrupling. We know Fortier and the A.F.R. know you're here
with me now.'
      'But do my brothers on wheels know that you are knowing this, that they have sent me to pretend I double?'
      Marathe's sidearm, a Sterling UL35 9 mm machine pistol with a Mag Na Port silencer, did not have a safety. Its fat and
texture-of-pebbles grip was hot from Marathe's palm, and in turn caused Marathe's palm to perspire beneath the blanket. From
Steeply there merely was silence.
      Marathe said: '. . . have I merely pretended to pretend to pretend to betray.'4242
      And the desert U.S.A.'s light had become now sad, more than half the round sun gone behind the Tortolitas. Only now the
chair's wheels and Steeply's thick legs cast shadows below the dusk-line, and these shadows were becoming squat and retreating
back up toward the two men.
      Steeply did a brief pretend-Charleston, playing with his legs' shadows. 'Nothing personal. You know that. It's the obsessive
caution. Who was it -- who once said we get paid to drive ourselves crazy, the caution thing? You guys and Tine -- your
DuPlessis always suspected he tried to hold back on the information he passed sexually to Luria.'
      Marathe shrugged hard. 'And abruptly M. DuPlessis has now passed away from life. Under circumstances of almost
ridiculous suspicion.' Again with the false-sounding laugh. 'An inept burglary and grippe indeed.'
      Both men were silent. Steeply's left arm had on it a nasty mesquite scratch, Marathe could observe.
      Marathe finally glanced at his watch, its dial illuminated in his body's shadow. Both men's shadows were now climbing the
steep incline, returning up to them. 'Me, I think that we go about our affairs in a more simple manner than your B.S.S. office. If M.
Tine's betrayal were incomplete, we of Quebec would be aware.'
      'Because of Luria.'
      Marathe pretended to fuss with his blanket, rearranging it. 'But yes. The caution. Luria would be aware.'
      Steeply stepped gingerly up to the edge and tossed out his cigarette's stub. The wind caught the stub and it soared slightly
upward from his hand, moving east. Both men were silent until the butt fell and hit the dark mountainside off below them, a tiny
bloom of orange. Their silence then became contemplative. Something tight in the air between them loosened. Marathe no longer
felt the sun on his skull. Dusk settled about them. Steeply had found his triceps' scratch and twisted the flesh of his arm to examine
it, his rouged lips rounded with concern.