     Thereafter proceeding first to the Upper Brighton and now to the cooperative Back Bay-edge brownstone she had lived in
once with Orin and performed in with his father and then passed on to Molly Notkin, today's party's guest of honor and hostess in
one, as of yesterday enjoying A.B.D. pre-doctoral status in Film & Film-Cartridge Theory at M.I.T., having cleared the notorious
hurdle of Oral Examinations on that day by offering her examination committee a dramatically rendered and if she did say so
herself devastating oral critique of post-millennial Marxist Film-Cartridge Theory from the point of view of Marx himself, Marx
as pretend-film-cartridge theorist and scholar. Still dressed as K.M. a day later, in celebration -- the glued beard matted and
pubic-black, Homburg ordered direct from Wiesbaden, soot from a terribly obscure British souvenir-filth shop -- she has no idea
that Joelle's been in a cage since Y.T.S.D.B., has no idea what she and Jim Incandenza were even about for twenty-one months,
whether they were lovers or what, whether Orin left because they were lovers or what,8080 or that Joelle even now lives hand-to-
lung on a grossly generous trust willed her by a man she unveiled for but never slept with, the prodigious punter's father, infinite
jester, director of a final opus so magnum he'd claimed to have had it locked away. Joelle's never seen the completed assembly of
what she'd appeared in, or seen anyone who's seen it, and doubts that any sum of scenes as pathologic as he'd stuck that long
quartzy auto-wobbling lens on the camera and filmed her for could have been as entertaining as he'd said the thing he'd always
wanted to make had broken his heart by ending up.
     Climbing to the third-floor, stairs pale from wear, still trembling from the a.m.'s interruptus, Joelle finds herself having a hard
time, climbing, as if the force of gravity goes up as she does. The party-sounds start around the second landing. Here is Molly
Notkin dressed as a crumbling Marx again greeting Joelle at her door with the sort of delighted mock-surprise U.S. hostesses use
for greetings. Notkin secures Joelle's veil for her during removal of the beaded coat and poncho, then lifts the veil slightly in a
practiced two-finger gesture to deliver a double-cheek kiss that is sour with cigarettes and wine -- Joelle never smokes when
veiled -- asking how Joelle got here and then without waiting for an answer offering her that odd kind of British-Columbian apple
juice they'd found they both liked so, and that Joelle at home's abandoned and gone back to the Big Red Soda Water of childhood,
which Notkin doesn't know, and still cluelessly considers extra-sweet Canadian juice to be pretty much both her and Joelle's
biggest vices. Molly Notkin's the kind of soul you want desperately to be polite to but have to hide it with because she'd be
mortified if she suspected you were ever just being polite to her about anything.
     Joelle makes a get-out~of-here gesture. 'The really really good kind?'
     'The kind that looks muddy it's so fresh.'
     'Where'd you get it this late this far east?'
     'The kind you just about have to strain it's so fresh.'
     The living room is full and hot, campy mambo playing, walls still the same off-white but all the trim now a confectioner's rich
brown. Or plus there's wine, Joelle sees, a whole assortment on the old sideboard it took three men with cigars in gray jumpsuits to
get up the stairs when they got it, an assortment of bottles of different shapes and dim colors and different levels of what's inside.
Molly Notkin has one dirty-nailed hand on Joelle's arm and one on the head of a chair of Maya Deren brooding avant-gardedly in
vivid spun-glass polymers, and is telling Joelle about her Orals in a party's near-shout that will leave her hoarse well before this
big one's sad end.
     A good muddy juice fills Joelle's mouth with spit that's as good as the juice, and her linen veil is drying and beginning once
again comfortingly to flutter with her breath, and, perched alone and glanced at covertly by persons who don't know they know
her voice, she feels the desire to raise the veil before a mirror, to refine some of her purse's untouched Material, raise the veil and
set free the encaged rapacious thing inside to breathe the only uncloth'd gas it can stomach; she feels ghastly and sad; she looks
like death, her mascara's all over the place; no one can tell. The plastic Pepsi bottle and glass cigar tube and lighter and packet of
glycine bags are a shape in the corner of the rain-darkened cloth purse that rests on the floor just below her dangling clogs. Molly
Notkin is standing with Rutherford Keck and Crosby Baum and a radically bad-postured man before the school-supplied
Infernatron viewer. Baum's wide back and pompadour obscure whatever's on the screen. Academics' voices sound nasal, with a
cultivated stutter at sentences' start. A good many of James O. Incandenza's films were silent. He was a self-acknowledged visual
filmmaker. His damaged grinning boy Joelle never got to know because Orin had disliked him often carried the case with the
lenses, grinning like somebody squinting into bright light. That insufferable child actor Smothergill used to contort his face at the
boy and he'd just laugh, which sent Smothergill into tantrums that Miriam Prickett would resolve in the bathroom somehow. An
old Latin-revival CD issues at acceptable volume from the speakers screwed into planters and hung with thin chains from each
corner of the cream ceiling. Another large loose group is dancing in the cleared space between the cluster of directorial chairs and
the bedroom door, most favoring Y.D.A.U.'s Minimal Mambo, this autumn's East Coast anticraze, the dancers appearing to be just
this side of standing still, the subtlest possible hints of fingers snapping under right-angled elbows. Orin Incandenza, she has not
forgotten, had a poor mottled swollen elbow above a forearm the size of a leg of lamb. He had switched neatly from arm to leg.
Joelle was Orin Incandenza's only lover for twenty-six months and his father's optical beloved for twenty-one. A foreign academic
with an almost Franciscan bald spot has the swirling limp of someone with a prosthesis -- hired by M.I.T. after her time. The
better dancers' movements are so tiny they are evocative and compel watching, their near-static mass curdled and bent somehow
subtly around one beautiful young woman, quite beautiful, her back undulating minimally in a thin tight blue-and-white-striped
sailorish top as she alludes to a cha-cha with maracas empty of anything to rattle, watching herself almost dance in the full-length
mirror of quality plate that after Orin left Joelle had forbidden Jim to hang and had slid beneath her bed face-down; now it's the
west wall's framed mirror, hung between two empty ornate gilt frames Notkin thinks she's been retroironic by having the frames
themselves framed, in rather less ornate frames, in wry allusion to the early-Experialist fashion of making art out of the
accessories of artistic presentation, the framed frames hanging not quite evenly on either side of the mirror he'd cut for the scenes
of that last ghastly thing he'd made her stand before, reciting in the openly empty tones she'd gone on to use on-air; the girl stands
transfixed in alternating horizontal blue and white, then vertically sliced by bar-cut sunlight, diced, drunk, so wrecked on good
vintage her lips hang slack and the reflected cheeks' muscles have lost all integrity and the cheeks jiggle like the outstanding paps
in her little sailor's top. Apocalyptic rouge and a nose-ring that's either electrified or is catching bits of light from the window. She
is watching herself with unselfconscious fascination in the only serviceable mirror here outside the bathroom. This absence of
shame at the self-obsession. Is she Canadian? Mirror-cult? Not possibly a U.H.I.D.: the bearing's all wrong. But now, whispered to
by a near-motionless man in an equestrian helmet, she turns abruptly falling away from her own reflection to explain, not to the
man so much as no one in particular, the whole dancing mass: I was just looking at my tits she says looking down at herself aren't
they beautiful, and it's moving, there's something so heartbreakingly sincere in what she says Joelle wants to go to her, tell her it is
and will be completely all right, she's pronounced beautiful like the earlier interested in four syllables, splitting the diphthong,
betraying her class and origin with the heartbreaking openness Joelle's always viewed as either terribly stupid or terribly brave, the
girl raising her striped arms in triumph or artless thanks for being constructed this way, these 'tits,' built by whom and for whom
never occurring, artlessly ecstatic, she is not drunk Joelle now sees but has taken Ecstasy, Joelle can see, from the febrile flush and
eyes jacked so wide you can make out brain-meat behind the balls' poles, a.k.a. X or MDMA, a beta-something, an early synthetic,
emotional acid, the Love Drug so-called, big among the artistic young under say Bush and successors, since fallen into relative
disuse because its pulverizing hangover has been linked to the impulsive use of automatic weapons in public venues, a hangover
that makes a freebase hangover look like a day at the emotional beach, the difference between suicide and homicide consisting
perhaps only in where you think you discern the cage's door: Would she kill somebody else to get out of the cage? Was the
allegedly fatally entertaining and scopophiliac thing Jim alleges he made out of her unveiled face here at the start of Y.T.S.D.B. a
cage or really a door? Had he even cut the tape into something coherent? There was nothing coherent in the mother-death-
cosmology and apologies she'd repeated over and over, inclined over that auto-wobbled lens propped up in the plaid-sided pram.
He never let her see it, not even the dailies. He killed himself less than ninety days later. Fewer than ninety days? How much must
a person want out, to put his head in a microwave oven? A dim woman all the kids had known of in Boaz had put her cat in a
microwave to dry it after a tick-bath and set the oven just on Defrost and the cat ended up all over the woman's kitchen's walls.
How would you rig the thing so it would activate with the door open? Is there just some sort of refrigerator-light button you could
hold down and secure with tape? Would the tape melt? She cannot remember thinking of it once in four years. Did she kill him,
somehow, just inclining veilless over that lens? The woman in love with her own breasts is being congratulated with the subtlest
possible allusions to clapping hands from barely animate dancers with their glass tulips held between their teeth, and Vogelsong of
Emerson College tries suddenly to stand on his head and is immediately ill in a spreading plum-colored ectoplasm the dancers do
not even try to evade the spread of, and Joelle applauds the Xtatic woman as well, because they are, Joelle admits freely, the paps,
they are attractive, which in the Union is designated Compelling Within Compatible Relative Limits; Joelle has no problem seeing
beauty approved, within compatible relative limits; she feels not empathy or maternal nurture any longer, just a desire to swallow
every last drop of saliva she will ever manufacture and exit this vessel, have fifteen more minutes of Too Much Fun, eliminate her
own map with the afflatus of the blind god of all doorless cages; and she lets herself slide forward from Méliès' lap, a tiny fall,
leading with her lumpy purse and glass of matte apple juice toward the door beyond the lines of a becalmed conga and door-way'd
huddles of a warm and well-felt theoretical party. And then, again, delays, dithers, and the easement to the bathroom is blocked.
She is the only veiled woman here, and an academic generation ahead of most of these candidates, and rather feared, even though
not many know she is an Aural Personality, feared for quitting instead of failing, and because of the connection of the memory of
Jim, and she is given a certain wide social berth, allowed to delay and orbit and stand unengaged at the fringes of shifting groups,
obliquely glanced at, veil going concave at each inbreath, waiting with hip-shot nonchalance for the bathroom off the bedroom to
clear, lac-carino the Chaplin-archivist and a jaundice-yellow older man have gone into Molly's bedroom and left the door ajar,
waiting nonchalantly, ignoring the foreign academic who wishes to know where she works with that veil, turning from him,
rudely, brain heaving in its bone-box, memorizing every detail like collecting empty shells, sipping cloudy juice under neatly
lifted corners of veil, now looking at instead of through the translucent cloth, the Improbably Deformed's equivalent of closing the
eyes in concentration on sound, letting the Very Last Party wash over her, passed gracefully by different mingling guests and once
or twice almost touched, seeing only inrushing and then billowing white, listening to different mingling voices the way the
unveiled young taste wine.
      'This is a technologically constituted space.'
      '-- thing opens tight on Remington in a hideous grandfatherly flannel suit, b & w, straight full-frontal shot in this grainy b &
w stuff Bouvier taught him to manipulate the f-stop to mimic that horrid old Super 8, straight full-frontal, staring past the camera,
no attempt to disguise he's reading off a prompter, monotone and all, saying "Few foreigners realize that the German term Berliner
is also the vulgate idiom for a common jelly doughnut, and thus that Kennedy's seminal 'Icb bein ein Berliner' was greeted by the
Teutonic crowds with a delight only apparently political," at which point he aims his thumb and finger at his own temple at which
point his TA doubles the focal-length so there's this giant --'
      'I would die to defend your constitutional right to error, friend, but in this one case you --'
      'They used to be less beautiful but then Rutherford said to quit sleeping face-down.'
      'No no I'm saying that this, this whole thing, what you and I are discoursing within, is a technologically constituted space.'
      'A du nous avons foi au poison.'
      'It's good cheese, but I've had better cheese.'
      'Mainwaring, this is Kirby, Kirby here's in pain, he's been telling me about it and now he'd like to tell you about it.'
      '-- complete mystery why Eve Plumb didn't show, it's known she'd re-upped for the part, the whole rest of them were there,
even Henderson and that Davis woman as Alice who had to be wheeled out under nurses' care, my God and Peter, looking as if
he'd eaten nothing but pastry for the past forty years, Greg with that absurd hairpiece and snakeskin boots, yes but all the kids
recognizable, underneath, somehow, this pre-digital insistence on continuity through time that was the project's whole magic and
raison, you know this, you're current on pre-digital phenomenology and Brady-theory. And then but now here's this entirely
incongruous middle-aged black woman playing Jan!'
      'De gustibus non est disputandum.'
      'Balls.'
      'An incongruous central blackness could have served to accentuate the terrible whiteness that had been in ineluct --'
      'The entire historical effect of a seminal program was horribly, horribly altered. Terribly altered.'
      'Eisenstein and Kurosawa and Michaux walk into a bar.'
      'You know those mass-market cartridges, for the masses? The ones that are so bad they're somehow perversely good? This
was worse than that.'
      '-- so-called phantom, but real. And mobile. First the spine. Then not the spine but the right eye-socket. Then the old socket's
fit as a fiddle but the thumb, the thumb doubles me over. It won't stay put.'
      'Fucks with the emulsion's gradient so that all the tesseract's angles appear to be right-angled, except in --'
      'So what I did I sat right up next to him, you see, so in a sense he didn't have room to stalk or draw a bead, Keck had said they
needed a good ten m., so I cocked the hat just so, just ever so slightly, like so, just cocked it over to the side like so and sat down
practically on the man's knee, asked after his show-carp, he keeps pedigreed carp, and of course you can imagine what --'
      '-- more interesting issue from a Heideggerian perspective is a priori, whether space as a concept is enframed by technology
as a concept.'
      'It has a mobile cunning, a kind of wraith- or phantom-like --'
      'Because they're emotional more labile at that stage.'
      ' "So get dentures?" she said. "So get dentures?" '`
      'Who shot The Incision? Who did the cinematography on The Incision?'
      '-- way it can be film qua film. Comstock says if it even exists it has to be something more like an aesthetic pharmaceutical.
Some beastly post-annular scopophiliacal vector. Suprasubliminals and that. Some kind of abstractable hypnosis, an optical
dopamine-cue. A recorded delusion. Duquette says he's lost contact with three colleagues. He said a good bit of Berkeley isn't
answering their phone.'
      'I don't think anyone here would dispute that they're absolutely fetching tits, Melinda.'
      'We had blinis with caviar. There were tartines. We had sweetbreads in mushroom cream sauce. He said it was all on him. He
said he was treating. There was roast artichoke topped with a sort of sly aiolí. Mutton stuffed with foie gras, double chocolate rum
cake. Seven kinds of cheese. A kiwi glace and brandy in snifters you needed two hands to swirl.'
     'That coke-addled fag in his Morris Mini.'
     The prosthetic film-scholar: 'Fans do not begin to keep it all in the Great Convexity. It creeps back in. What goes around, it
comes back around. This your nation refuses to learn. It will keep creeping back in. You cannot give away your filth and prevent
all creepage, no? Filth by its very nature it is a thing that is creeping always back. Me, I can remember when your Charles was
cafe with cream. Look now at it. It is the blue river. You have a river outside you that is robin-egg's blue.'
     'I think you mean Great Concavity, Alain.'
     'I meant Great Convexity. I know what is the thing I meant.'
     'And then it turned out he'd put ipecac in the brandy. It was the most horrible thing you've ever seen. Everyone, all over,
spouting like whales. I'd heard the term projectile vomiting but I never thought that I -- you could aim, the pressure was such that
you could aim. And out come his grad technicians from under the tablecloth's like overhang, and he pulls out a canvas chair and
clapper and begins filming the whole horrible staggering spouting groaning --'
     This ultimate cartridge-as-ecstatic-death rumor's been going around like a lazy toilet since Dishmaster, for Christ's sake.
Simply make inquiries, mention some obscure foundation grant, obtain the thing through whatever shade of market the thing's
alleged to be out in. Have a look. See that it's doubtless just high-concept erotica or an hour of rotating whorls. Or something like
late Makavajev, something that's only entertaining after it's over, on reflection.'
     The striated parallelogram of p.m. sunlight is elongating in transit across the coop's eastern wall, over bottle-laden sideboard
and glass cabinet of antique editing equipment and louvered vent and shelves of art-cartridges in their dull black and dun cases.
The mole-studded man in the equestrian helmet is either winking at her or has a tic. There's the pre-suicide's classic longing: Sit
down one second, I want to tell you everything. My name is Joelle van Dyne, Dutch-Irish, and I was reared on family land east of
Shiny Prize, Kentucky, the only child of a low-pH chemist and his second wife. I now have no accent except under stress. I am 1.7
meters tall and weigh 48 kilograms. I occupy space and have mass. I breathe in and breathe out. Joelle has never before today
been conscious of the sustained volition required to just breathe in and breathe out, her veil recessing into nose and rounded mouth
and then bowing out slightly like curtains over an opened pane.
     'Convexity.'
     'Concavity!'
     'Convexity!'
     'Concavity damn your eyes!'
     The bathroom has a hook and a mirrored medicine cabinet over the sink and is off the bedroom. Molly Notkin's bedroom
looks like the bedroom of someone who stays in bed for serious lengths of time. A pair of pantyhose has been tossed onto a lamp.
There are not crumbs but whole portions of crackers protruding from the gray surf of wopsed-up bedding. A photo of the
phalloneurotic New Yorker with the same fold-out triangular support as the blank cartridge's anti-ad. A Ziploc of pot and EZ-
Widers and seeds in the ashtray. Books with German and Cyrillic titles lie open in spine-cracking attitudes on the colorless rug.
Joelle's never liked the fact that Notkin's father's photograph is nailed at iconic height to the wall above the headboard, a systems
planner out of Knoxville TN, his smile the smile of a man who wears white loafers and a squirting carnation. And why are
bathrooms always way brighter lit than whatever room they're off? On the private side of the bathroom door she's had to take two
damp towels off the top of to close all the way, the same rotten old hook for a lock never quite ever seeming to want to fit its
receptacle in the jamb, the party's music now some horrible collection of mollified rock classics with all soft rock's grim dental
associations, the business side of the door is hung with a Selective Automation of Knoxville calendar from before Subsidized
Time and cut-out photos of Kinski as Paganini and Léaud as Doinel and a borderless still of the crowd scene in what looks like
Peterson's The Lead Shoes and rather curiously the offprinted page of J. van Dyne, M.A.'s one and only published film-theory
monograph.8181 Joelle can smell, through her veil and own stale exhalations, the little room's complicated spice of sandalwood
rubble in a little violet-ribboned pomander and deodorant soap and the sharp decayed-lemon odor of stress-diarrhea. Low-budget
celluloid horror films created ambiguity and possible elision by putting ? after THE END, is what pops into her head: THE END?
amid the odors of mildew and dicky academic digestion? Joelle's mother's family had no indoor plumbing. It is all right. She
represses all bathetic this-will-be-the-last-thing-I-smell thought-patterns. Joelle is going to have Too Much Fun in here. It was
beyond all else so much fun, at the start. Orin had neither disapproved nor partaken; his urine was an open book because of
football. Jim hadn't disapproved so much as been vacant with disinterest. His Too Much was neat bourbon, and he had lived life to
the fullest, and then gone in for detoxification, again and again. This had been simply too much fun, at the start. So much better
even than nasaling the Material up through rolled currency and waiting for the cold bitter drip at the back of your throat and
cleaning the newly spacious apartment to within an inch of its life while your mouth twitches and writhes unbidden beneath the
veil. The 'base frees and condenses, compresses the whole experience to the implosion of one terrible shattering spike in the
graph, an afflated orgasm of the heart that makes her feel, truly, attractive, sheltered by limits, deveiled and loved, observed and
alone and sufficient and female, full, as if watched for an instant by God. She always sees, after inhaling, right at the apex, at the
graph's spike's tip, Bernini's 'Ecstasy of St. Teresa,' behind glass, at the Vittoria, for some reason, the saint recumbent, half-supine,
her flowing stone robe lifted by the angel in whose other hand a bare arrow is raised for that best descent, the saint's legs frozen in
opening, the angel's expression not charity but the perfect vice of barb-headed love. The stuff had been not just her encaging god
but her lover, too, fiendish, angelic, of rock. The toilet seat is up. She can hear a helicopter's chop somewhere overhead east, a
traffic helicopter over Stor-row, and Molly Notkin's shriek as an enormous glass crash sounds off in the living room, imagines her
beard hanging aslant and her mouth ellipsed with champagne's foam as she waves off the breakage that signals good Party, can
hear through the door the ecstatic Melinda's apologies and Molly's laugh, which sounds like a shriek:
     'Oh everything falls off the wall sooner or later.'
     Joelle has lifted her veil back to cover her skull like a bride. Since she threw away her pipes and bowls and screens again this
A.M. she is going to have to be resourceful. On the counter of an old sink the same not-quite white as the floor and ceiling (the
wallpaper is a maddening uncountable pattern of roses twined in garlands on sticks) on the counter are an old splay-bristled
toothbrush, tube of Gleem rolled neatly up from the bottom, unsavory old NoCoat scraper, rubber cement, NeGram, depilatory
ointment, tube of Monostat not squeezed from the bottom, phony-beard whis-kerbits and curled green threads of used mint floss
and Parapectolin and a wholly unsqueezed tube of diaphragm-foam and no makeup but serious styling gel in a big jar with no lid
and hairs around the rim and an empty tampon box half-filled with nickels and pennies and rubber bands, and Joelle sweeps an
arm across the counter and squunches everything over to the side under the small rod with a washcloth wrung viciously out and
dried in the tight spiral of a twisted cord, and if some items do totter and fall to the floor it is all right because everything
eventually has to fall. On the cleared counter goes Joelle's misshapen purse. The absence of veil dulls the bathroom's smells,
somehow.
      She's been resourceful before, but this is the most deliberate Joelle has been able to be about it in something like a year. From
the purse she removes the plastic Pepsi container, a box of wooden matches kept dry in a resealable baggie, two little thick glycine
bags each holding four grams of pharmaceutical-grade cocaine, a single-edge razor blade (increasingly tough to find), a little black
Kodachrome canister whose gray lid she pops and discards to reveal baking soda sifted fine as talc, the empty glass cigar tube, a
folded square of Reynolds Wrap foil the size of a playing card, and an amputated length of the bottom of a quality wire coat
hanger. The overhead light casts shadows of her hands over what she needs, so she turns on the light over the medicine cabinet's
mirror as well. The light stutters and hums and bathes the counter with cold lithium-free fluorescence. She undoes the four pins
and removes the veil from her head and places it on the counter with the rest of the Material. Lady Delphina's little glycine baglets
have clever seals that are green when sealed and blue and yellow when not. She taps half a glycine's worth into the cigar tube and
adds half again as much baking soda, spilling some of the soda in a parenthesis of bright white on the counter. This is the most
deliberate she's been able to be in at least a year. She turns the sink's C knob and lets the water get really cold, then cranks the
volume back to a trickle and fills the rest of the tube to the top with water. She holds the tube up straight and gently taps on its
side with a blunt unpainted nail, watching the water slowly darken the powders beneath it. She produces a double rose of flame in
the mirror that illuminates the right side of her face as she holds the tube over the matches' flame and waits for the stuff to begin to
bubble. She uses two matches, twice. When the tube gets too hot to hold she takes and folds her veil and uses it as a kind of oven-
mitt over the fingers of her left hand, careful (from habit and experience) not to let the bottom corners get close enough to the
flame to brown. After it's bubbled for just a second Joelle shakes out the matches with a flourish and tosses them in the toilet to
hear that briefest of hisses. She takes up the black wire prod from the hanger and begins to stir and mash the just-bubbled stuff in
the tube, feeling it thicken quickly and its resistance to the wire's tiny circles increase. It was when her hands started to tremble
during this part of the cooking procedure that she'd first known she liked this more than anyone can like anything and still live.
She is not stupid. The Charles rolling away far below the windowless bathroom is vividly blue, more mildly blue on top from the
fresh rainwater that had made purple rings appear and widen, a deeper Magic Marker-type blue below the dilute layer, gulls
stamped to the cleared sky, motionless as kites. A bulky thump sounds from behind the large flat-top Enfield hill on the river's
south shore, a large but relatively shapeless projectile of drums wrapped in brown postal paper and belted with twine hurtling in a
broad upward arc that bothers the gulls into dips and wheels, the brown package quickly a pinpoint in the yet-hazy sky to the
north, where a yellow-brown cloud hangs just above the line between sky and terrain, its top slowly dispersing and opening out so
that the cloud looks like a not very pretty sort of wastebasket, waiting. Inside, Joelle hears only a bit of the bulky thump, which
could be anything. The only other thing besides what she's about to do too much of here right now she'd ever come close to feeling
this way about: In Joelle's childhood, Paducah, not too bad a drive from Shiny Prize, still had a few public movie theaters, six and
eight separate auditoria clustered in single honeycombs at the edges of interstate malls. The theaters always ended in -plex, she
reflected. The Thisoplex and Thatoplex. It had never struck her as odd. And she never saw even one film there, as a girl, that she
didn't just about die with love for. It didn't matter what they were. She and her own personal Daddy up in the front row, they sat in
the front rows of the narrow little overinsulated -plexes up in neck-crick territory and let the screen fill their whole visual field, her
hand in his lap and their big box of Crackerjacks in her hand and sodapops secure in little rings cut out of the plastic of their seats'
arms; and he, always with a wooden match in the corner of his mouth, pointing up into the rectangular world at this one or that
one, performers, giant flawless 2D beauties iridescent on the screen, telling Joelle over and over again how she was prettier than
this one or that one right there. Standing in the placid line as he bought the -plex's paper tickets that looked like grocery receipts,
knowing that she was going to love the celluloid entertainment no matter what it was, wonderfully innocent, still thinking quality
referred to the living teddy bears in Qantas commercials, standing hand-held, eyes even with his wallet's back-pocket bulge, she'd
never so much again as in that line felt so taken care of, destined for big-screen entertainment's unalloyed good fun, never once
again until starting in with this lover, cooking and smoking it, five years back, before Incandenza's death, at the start. The punter
never made her feel quite so taken care of, never made her feel about to be entered by something that didn't know she was there
and yet was all about making her feel good anyway, coming in. Entertainment is blind.
      The improbable thing of the whole thing is that, when the soda and water and cocaine are mixed right and heated right and
stirred just right as the mix cools down, then when the stuff's too stiff to stir and is finally ready to come on out it comes out slick
as shit from a goat, just an inverted-ketchup-bottle thump and out the son of a fucking whore slides, one molded cylinder hardened
onto the black wire, its snout round from the glass tube's bottom. The average pre-chopped freebase rock looks like a .38 round.
What Joelle now slides with three fillips from the cigar tube is a monstrous white wiener, a county-fair corn dog, its sides a bit
rough, like mâché, a couple clots left on the inside of the tube that are what you forage and smoke before the Chore Boys and
panties.
      She is now a little under two deliberate minutes from Too Much Fun for anyone mortal to hope to endure. Her unveiled face
in the dirty lit mirror is shocking in the intensity of its absorption. Out in the bedroom doorway she can hear Reeves Mainwaring
telling some helium-voiced girl that life is essentially one long search for an ashtray. Too Much Fun. She uses the razor blade to
cross-section chunks out of the freebase wiener. You can't whittle thin deli-shaved flakes off because they'll crumble back to
powder right away and they anyway don't smoke as well as you'd think. Blunt chunks are S.O.P. Joelle chops out enough chunks
for maybe twenty good-sized hits. They form a little quarry on the soft cloth of her folded veil on the counter. Her Brazilian skirt
is no longer damp. Reeves Mainwaring's blond imperial often had little bits of food residue in it. 'The Ecstasy of St. Teresa' is on
perpetual display at the Vittoria in Rome and she never got to see it. She will never again say And Lo and invite people to watch
darkness dance on the face of the deep. 'The Face of the Deep' had been the title she'd suggested for Jim's unseen last cartridge,
which he'd said would be too pretentious and then used that skull-fragment out of the Hamlet graveyard scene instead, which talk
about pretentious she'd laughed. His frightened look when she'd laughed is for the life of her the last facial-expression memory she
can remember of the man. Orin had referred to his father sometimes as Himself and sometimes as The Mad Stork and once in a
slip as The Sad Stork. She lights one wooden match and blows it right out and touches the hot black head to the side of the plastic
pop bottle. It melts right through and makes a little hole. The helicopter was probably a traffic helicopter. Somebody at their
Academy had had some connection to some traffic helicopter that had had an accident. She can't for the life of her. No one out
there knows she is in here getting ready to have Too Much. She can hear Molly Notkin calling through rooms about has anyone
seen Keck. In her first theory seminar Reeves Mainwaring had called one film 'wretchedly ill-conceived' and another 'desperately
acquiescent' and Molly Notkin had pretended to have a coughing fit and had had a Tennessee accent and that was how they met.
The Reynolds Wrap is to make a screen that will rest in the bottle's open top. A regular dope screen is the size of a thimble, its
sides spread like an opening bud. Joelle uses the point of some curved nail scissors on the back of the toilet to poke tiny holes in
the rectangle of aluminum foil and shapes it into a shallow funnel large enough to siphon gasoline, narrowing its tip to fit in the
bottle's mouth. She now owns a pipe with a monster-sized bowl and screen, now, and puts in enough chunklets to make five or six
hits at once. The little rocks lie there piled and yellow-white. She puts her lips experimentally to the melted hole in the side of the
bottle and draws, then, very deliberately, lights another match and extinguishes it and makes the hole bigger. The idea that she'll
never see Molly Notkin or the cerebral Union or her U.H.I.D. support-brothers and -sisters or the YYY engineer or Uncle Bud on
a roof or her stepmother in the Locked Ward or her poor personal Daddy again is sentimental and banal. The idea of what she's
about in here contains all other ideas and makes them banal. Her glass of juice is on the back of the toilet, half-empty. The back of
the toilet is lightly sheened with condensation of unknown origin. These are facts. This room in this apartment is the sum of very
many specific facts and ideas. There is nothing more to it than that. Deliberately setting about to make her heart explode has
assumed the status of just one of these facts. It was an idea but now is about to become a fact. The closer it comes to becoming
concrete the more abstract it seems. Things get very abstract. The concrete room was the sum of abstract facts. Are facts abstract,
or are they just abstract representations of concrete things? Molly Notkin's middle name is Cantrell. Joelle puts two more matches
together and prepares to strike them, breathing rapidly in and out like a diver preparing for a long descent.
     'I say is someone in there?' The voice is the young post-New Formalist from Pittsburgh who affects Continental and wears an
ascot that won't stay tight, with that hesitant knocking of when you know perfectly well someone's in there, the oathroom door
composed of thirty-six that's three times a lengthwise twelve recessed two-bevelled squares in a warped rectangle of steam-
softened wood, not quite white, the bottom outside corner right here raw wood and mangled from hitting the cabinets' bottom
drawer's wicked metal knob, through the door and offset 'Red' and glowering actors and calendar and very crowded scene and
pubic spiral of pale blue smoke from the elephant-colored rubble of ash and little blackened chunks in the foil funnel's cone, the
smoke's baby-blanket blue that's sent her sliding down along the wall past knotted washcloth, towel rack, blood-flower wallpaper
and intricately grimed electrical outlet, the light sharp bitter tint of a heated sky's blue that's left her uprightly fetal with chin on
knees in yet another North American bathroom, deveiled, too pretty for words, maybe the Prettiest Girl Of All Time (Prettiest
G.O.A.T.), knees to chest, slew-footed by the radiant chill of the claw-footed tub's porcelain, Molly's had somebody lacquer the
tub in blue, lacquer, she's holding the bottle, recalling vividly its slogan for the last generation was The Choice of a Nude
Generation, when she was of back-pocket height and prettier by far than any of the peach-colored titans they'd gazed up at, his
hand in her lap her hand in the box and rooting down past candy for the Prize, more fun way too much fun inside her veil on the
counter above her, the stuff in the funnel exhausted though it's still smoking thinly, its graph reaching its highest spiked prick,
peak, the arrow's best descent, so good she can't stand it and reaches out for the cold tub's rim's cold edge to pull herself up as the
white- party-noise reaches, for her, the sort of stereophonic precipice of volume to teeter on just before the speakers blow, people
barely twitching and conversations strettoing against a ghastly old pre-Carter thing saying 'We've Only Just Begun,' Joelle's limbs
have been removed to a distance where their acknowledgment of her commands seems like magic, both clogs simply gone, no-
where in sight, and socks oddly wet, pulls her face up to face the unclean medicine-cabinet mirror, twin roses of flame still
hanging in the glass's corner, hair of the flame she's eaten now trailing like the legs of wasps through the air of the glass she uses
to locate the de-faced veil and what's inside it, loading up the cone again, the ashes from the last load make the world's best filter:
this is a fact. Breathes in and out like a savvy diver --
     'Look here then who's that in there? Is someone in there? Do open up. I'm on one foot then the other out here. I say Notkin
someone's been in here locked in and, well, sounding unwell, amid rather a queer scent.'
     -- and is knelt vomiting over the lip of the cool blue tub, gouges on the tub's lip revealing sandy white gritty stuff below the
lacquer and porcelain, vomiting muddy juice and blue smoke and dots of mercuric red into the claw-footed trough, and can hear
again and seems to see, against the fire of her closed lids' blood, bladed vessels aloft in the night to monitor flow, searchlit
helicopters, fat fingers of blue light from one sky, searching.