     'Can I ask you how it is being in that thing?'
     Thing?'
     'You know. Don't play dumb and embarrass me.'
     'A wheelchair is a thing which: you prefer it or do not prefer, it is no distance. Difference. You are in the chair even if you do
not prefer it. So it is better to prefer, no?'
     'I can't believe I'm drinking. There's all these people in the House they're always worried they're going to drink. I'm in there
for drugs. I've never had more than a beer ever in my life. I only came in here to throw up from getting mugged. Some street guy
was offering to be a witness and he would not leave me alone. I didn't even have any money. I came in here to vomit.'
     'I know what it is you are meaning.'
     'What's your name one more time?'
     'I call myself Rémy.'
     'This is a beautiful thing as Hester would say. I don't feel horrid anymore. Ramy I feel better than I feel, felt in ever so I don't
know how long. This is like novocaine of the soul. I'm like: why was I spending all that time doing one-hitters when this is really
what / call feeling better.'
     'Us, I do not take any drugs. I drink infrequently.'
     'Well you're making up for lost time I have to say.'
     'When I drink I have many drinks. This is how it is for my people.'
     'My mom won't even have it in the house. She said it's what made her father drive into concrete and wipe out his entire
family. Which like I'm so tired of hearing it. I came in here -- what is this place?'
     'This, it is Ryle's Inman Square Club of Jazz. My wife is dying at home in my native province.'
     'There's this thing in the Big Book they make us every Sunday we have to drag ourselves out of bed at the absolute crack of
dawn and sit in a circle and read out of it and half the people can barely even read and it's excruciating to listen to!'
     'You should make your voice lower, for in the hours of no jazz they enjoy low voices, coming in for quiet.'
     'And there's a thing about a car salesman trying to quit drinking, it's about the they call it the insanity of the first one, drink --
he comes in a bar for a sandwich and a glass of milk -- are you hungry?'
     'Non.'
     'What am I saying I don't have any money. I don't even have my purse. This stuff makes you stupid but it makes you feel
quite a bit improved. He wasn't thinking of a drink and then all of a sudden he thinks of a drink. This guy-'
     'Out of a blue place, in one flashing instant.'
     'Exactly. But the insanity is after all this time in hospitals and losing his business and his wife because of drinking he
suddenly gets it into his head that one drink won't hurt him if he puts it in a glass of milk.'1
     'Crazy in his head.'
     'So when this absolutely reptilian character you saved me from by sitting down, rolling over, whatever. Sor-ry. When he says
can he buy me a drink the book flashes in my mind and for sort of as it felt like a joke I ordered Kahlua and milk.'
     'Me, I come in for nights I am tired, after the music has packed away, for the quiet. I use the telephone here as well,
sometimes.'
     'I mean even before the mugging I was walking along soberly deciding how to kill myself, so it seems a little silly to worry
about drinking.'
     'You have a certain expression of resemblance of my wife.'
     'Your wife is dying. Jesus I'm sitting here laughing and your wife is dying. I think it's that I haven't felt decent in so freaking
long, do you know what I'm saying? I'm not talking like good, I'm not talking like pleasure, I wouldn't want to go overboard with
this thing, but at least at like zero, even, what do they call it Feeling No Pain.'
     'I know of this meaning. I am spending a day to find someone I think my friends will kill, all the time I am awaiting the
chance to betray my friends, and I come here and telephone to betray them and I see this bruised person who strongly resembles
my wife. I think: Rémy, it is time for many drinks.'
     'Well / think you're nice. I think you just about saved my life. I've spent like nine weeks feeling so bad I wanted to just about
kill myself, both getting high and not. Dr. Garton never mentioned this. He talked plenty about shock but he never even freaking
mentioned Kahlua and milk.'
     'Katherine, I will tell you a story about feeling so bad and saving a life. I do not know you but we are drunk together now, and
will you hear this story?'
     'It's not about Hitting Bottom ingesting any sort of Substance and trying to Surrender, is it?'
     'My people, we do not hit the bottoms of women. I am, shall we say, Swiss. My legs, they were lost in the teenage years being
struck by a train.'
     'That must have smarted.'
     'I would have temptation to say you have no idea. But I am sensing you have an idea of hurting.'
     'You have no idea.'
     'I am in early twenty years, without the legs. Many of my friends also: without legs.'
     'Must have been an awful train crash.'
     'Also my own father: dead when his Kenbeck pacemaker came within range of a misdialed number of a cellular phone far
away in Trois Rivieres, in a freakish occurrence of tragedy.'
     'My dad emotionally abandoned us and moved to Portland, which is in Oregon, with his therapist.'
     'Also in this time, my Swiss nation, we are a strong people but not strong as a nation, surrounded by strong nations. There is
much hatred of our neighbors, and unfairness.'
     'It all started when my mom found a picture of his therapist in his wallet and goes "What's that doing in here?" `
     'It is, for me, who I am weak, so painful to be without legs in the early twenty years. One feels grotesque to people; one's
freedom is restricted. I have no chances now for jobs in the mines of Switzerland.'
     'The Swiss have gold mines.'
     'As you say. And much beautiful territory, which the stronger nations at the time of losing my legs committed paper atrocities
to my nation's land.'
     Trucking bastards.'
     'It is a long story to the side of this story, but my part of the Swiss nation is in my time of no legs invaded and despoiled by
stronger and evil hated and neighboring nations, who claim as in the Anschluss of Hitler that they are friends and are not invading
the Swiss but conferring on us gifts of alliance.'
     'Total dicks.'
     'It is to the side, but for my Swiss friends and myself without legs it is a dark period of injustice and dishonor, and of terrible
pain. Some of my friends roll themselves off to fight against the invasion of paper, but me, I am too painful to care enough to
fight. To me, the fight seems without point: our own Swiss leaders have been subverted to pretend the invasion is alliance; we
very few legless young cannot repel an invasion; we cannot even make our government admit that there is an invasion. I am weak
and, in pain, see all is pointless: I do not see the meaning of choosing to fight.'
     'You're depressed is what you are.'
     'I see no point and do no work and belong to nothing; I am alone. I think of death. I do nothing but frequently drink, roll
around the despoiled countryside, sometimes dodging falling projectiles of invasion, thinking of death, bemoaning the depredation
of the Swiss land, in great pain. But it is myself I bemoan. I have pain. I have no legs.'
     'I'm Identifying every step of the way with you, Ramy. Oh God, what did I say?'
     'And us, our Swiss countryside is very hilly. The fauteuil, it is hard to push up many hills, then one is braking with all the
might to keep from flying out of control on the downhill.'
     'Sometimes it's like that walking, too.'
     'Katherine, I am, in English, moribund. I have no legs, no Swiss honor, no leaders who will fight the truth. I am not alive,
Katherine. I roll from skiing lodge to tavern, frequently drinking, alone, wishing for my death, locked inside my pain in the heart.
I wish for my death but have not the courage to make actions to cause death. I twice try to roll over the side of a tall Swiss hill but
cannot bring myself. I curse myself for cowardice and inutile. I roll about, hoping to be hit by a vehicle of someone else, but at the
last minute rolling out of the path of vehicles on Autoroutes, for I am unable to will my death. The more pain in my self, the more
I am inside the self and cannot will my death, I think. I feel I am chained in a cage of the self, from the pain. Unable to care or
choose anything outside it. Unable to see anything or feel anything outside my pain.'
     'The billowing shaped black sailing wing. I am so totally Identifying it's not even funny.'
     'My story it was one day at the top of a hill I had drunkenly labored for many minutes to roll to the crest, and looking out over
the downhill slope I see a small hunched woman in what I am thinking is a metal hat far below at the bottom, attempting the
crossing of the Swiss Provincial Autoroute at the bottom, in the middle of the Provincial Autoroute, this woman, standing and
staring in the terror at one of the hated long and shiny many-wheeled trucks of our paper invaders, bearing down upon her at high
speeds in the hurry to come despoil part of the Swiss land.'
     'Like one of those Swiss metal helmets? Is she scrambling crazily to get out of the way?'
     'She is standing transfixed with horror of the truck -- identically as I had been motionless and transfixed by horror inside me,
unable to move, like one of the many moose of Switzerland transfixed by the headlights of one of the many logging-trucks of
Switzerland. The sunlight is reflecting madly on her metal hat as she is shaking her head in terror and she is clutching her --
pardon me, but her female bosom, as if the heart of her would explode from the terror.'
     'And you think, Oh fuck me, just great, another horrible thing I'm going to have stand here and witness and then go feel pain
over.'
     'But the great gift of this time today at the hilltop above the Provincial Autoroute is I do not think of me. I do not know this
woman or love her, but without thinking I release my brake and I am careening down the downhill, almost wipe-outing numerous
places on the bumps and rocks of the hill's slope, and as we say in Switzerland I schüssch at enough speed to reach my wife and
sweep her up into the chair and roll across the Provincial Auto-route into the embanking ahead just ahead of the nose of the truck,
which had not slowed.'
     'Hang me upside-down and fuck me in both ears. You pulled yourself out of a clinical depression by being a freaking hero.'
     'We rolled and tumbled down the embanking on the Autoroute's distant side, causing my chair to tip and injuring a stump of
me, and knocking away her thick metal hat.'
     'You saved somebody's freaking life, Ramy. I'd give my left nut for a chance to pull myself out of the shadow of the wing that
way, Ramy.'
     'You are not seeing this. It was this frozen with the terror woman, she saved my life. For this saved my life. This moment
broke my moribund chains, Katherine. In one instant and without thought I was allowed to choose something as more important
than my thinking of my life. Her, she allowed this will without thinking. She with one blow broke the chains of the cage of pain at
my half a body and nation. When I had crawled back to my fauteuil and placed my tipped fauteuil aright and I was again seated I
realized the pain of inside no longer pained me. I became, then, adult. I was permitted leaving the pain of my own loss and pain at
the top of Switzerland's Mont Papineau.'
     'Because suddenly you gazed at the girl without her metal hat and felt a rush of passion and fell madly in love enough to get
married and roll together off into the s--'
     'She had no skull, this woman. Later I am learning she had been among the first Swiss children of southwestern Switzerland
to become born without a skull, from the toxicities in association of our enemy's invasion on paper. Without the confinement of
the metal hat the head hung from the shoulders like the half-filled balloon or empty bag, the eyes and oral cavity greatly distended
from this hanging, and sounds exiting this cavity which were difficult to listen.'
     'But still, something about her moved you to fall madly in love. Her gratitude and humility and acceptance and that kind of
quiet dignity really horribly handic-- birth-defected people usually have.'
     'It was not mad. I had already chosen. The unclamping of the brakes of the fauteuil and schüssching to the Autoroute -- this
was the love. I had chosen loving her above my lost legs and this half a self.'
     'And she looked at your missing limbs and didn't even see them and chose you right back -- result: passionate love.'
     'There was for this woman in the embanking no possible choosing. Without the containing helmet all energies in her were
committed to the shaping of the oral cavity in a shape that allowed breathing, which was a task of great enormity, for her head it
had also neither muscles nor nerves. The special hat had found itself dented in upon one side, and I had not the ability to shape my
wife's head into a shape that I could stuff the sac of her head into the hat, and I chose to carry her over my shoulders in a high-
speed rolling to the nearest Swiss hôpital specializing in deformities of grave nature. It was there I learned of the other troubles.'
     'I think I'd like a couple more Kahlua and milks.'
     'There was the trouble of the digestive tracking. There were seizures also. There were progressive decays of circulation and
vessel, which calls itself restenosis. There were the more than standard accepted amounts of eyes and cavities in many different
stages of development upon different parts of the body. There were the fugue states and rages and frequency of coma. She had
wandered away from a public institution of Swiss charitable care. Worst for choosing to love was the cerebro-and-spinal fluids
which dribbled at all times from her distending oral cavity.'
     'And but your passionate love for each other dried up her cerebro-spinal drool and ended the seizures and there were certain
hats she looked so good in it just about drove you mad with love? Is that it?'
     'Garçon!'
     'Is the madly-in-love part coming up?'
     'Katherine, I had too believed there was no love without passion. Pleasure. This was part of the pain of the no legs, this fear
that for me there would be no passion. The fear of the pain is many times worse than the pain of the pain, n'est ce --?'
     'Ramy I don't think I'm like thinking this is a feel-better story at all.'
     'I tried to leave the soft-head and cerebro-spinally incontinent woman, m'épouse au future, behind at the hôpital of grave
nature and to wheel off into my new life of uncaged acceptance and choice. I would roll into the fraying of battle for my despoiled
nation, for now I saw the point not of winning but of choosing merely to fight. But I had travelled no more than several
revolutions of the fauteuil when the old despair of before choosing this no-skull creature rose up once again inside me. Within
several revolutions there was no point again and no legs, and only fear of the pain that made me not choose. Pain rolled me
backwards to this woman, my wife.'
     'You're saying this is love? This isn't love. I'll know when it's love because of the way it'll feel. It won't be about spinal fluid
and despair believe you me, Bucko. It'll be about your eyes meet across someplace and both your knees give out and from that
second forward you know you're not going to be alone and in hell. You're not half the guy I started to think you might have been,
Ray.'
     'I had to face: I had chosen. My choice, this was love. I had chosen I think the way out of the chains of the cage. I needed this
woman. Without her to choose over myself, there was only pain and not choosing, rolling drunkenly and making fantasies of
death.'
     'This is love? It's like you were chained to her. It's like if you tried to get on with your own life the pain of the clinical
depression came back. It's like the clinical depression was a shotgun nudging you down the wedding aisle. Was there a wedding
aisle? Could she even get down a wedding aisle?'
     'My wife's wedding helmet was of the finest nickel mined and molded by friends in the nickel mines of southwest
Switzerland. Each of us, we were rolled down the aisle in special conveyings. Hers with special pans and drains, for the fluids. It
was the happiest day ever for me, since the train. The cleric asked did I choose this woman. There was a long time of silence. My
whole very being came to a knifelike point in that instant, Katharine, my hand holding tenderly the hook of my wife.'
     'Hook? As in hand-hook?'
     'I have been knowing since the wedding night her death was coming. Her restenosis of the heart, it is irreversible. Now my
Gertraude, she has been in a comatose and vegetating state for almost one year. This coma has no exit, it is said. The advanced
Jaarvik IX Exterior Artificial Heart is said by the public-aid cardiologists of Switzerland to be her chance for life. With it they say
my wife can live for many more years in a comatose and vegetated state.'
     'So you're down here like pressing your case to the Jaarvik IX people at Harvard or wherever.'
     'It is for her I betray my friends and cell, the cause of my nation, which now that victory and independence of the neighbors is
possible I am betraying it.'
      'You're spying and betraying Switzerland to try and keep alive somebody with a hook and spinal fluid and no skull in an
irreversible coma? And I thought / was disturbed. You're making me totally reorient my idea of disturbed, mister.'
      'I am not telling for disturbing you, poor Katherine. I am telling of pain and saving a life, and love.'
      'Well, Ray, far be it from far for me, but that's not love: that's low self-esteem and self-abuse and Settling For Less, choosing
a coma over your comrades. Assuming you're even not totally lying to get me into the hay or some fucked-up disturbed sicko shit
like that.'
      This --'
      'Which I've got to tell you, saying I remind you of her isn't exactly the way to sweep my feet off, you know what I'm saying
here?'
      'This is what is hard to tell. To ask any person to see. It is no choice. It is not choosing Gertraude over the A.F.R., my
companions. Over the causes. Choosing Gertraude to love as my wife was necessary for the others, these other choices. Without
the choice of her life there are no other choices. I tried leaving at the commencement. I got only very few revolutions of the
fauteuil.'
      'Sounds more like a gun to your head than a choice. If you can't choose the other way, there's no choice.'
      'No, but this choice, Katherine: I made it. It chains me, but the chains are of my choice. The other chains: no. The others were
the chains of not choosing.'
      'Do you have a twin that just came in and sat down just to the left of you but is also like about one-third overlapping on you?'
      'You are merely drunk. This will happened quickly if unused to alcohol. Nausea often accompanies this. Do not be alarmed if
there is visual doubling, losing balance, and nausea of the stomach.'
      'The price of a like complete normal human digestive tract. I used to throw up every morning without drinking. Rain and
shine both.'
      'You think there is no love without the pleasure, the no-choice compelling of passion.'
      'I appreciate the drinks and all, but I don't think I'm going to like memorize a lecture on love from somebody who marries
somebody with cerebro-fluid spewing out of their mouth, no offense intended.'
      'As you say. My opinions are only that the love you of this country speak of yields none of the pleasure you seek in love. This
whole idea of the pleasure and good feelings being what to choose. To give yourself away to. That all choice for you leads there
-- this pleasure of not choosing.'
      'Don't grudge me a little feeling good, of all people, Ray, asshole, shit-puddle, Swisshead.'
      '...'
      'Is it better to throw up right away or try to wait before you throw up, Mr. Drinking Expert?'
      'I am thinking: what if I were to claim we might leave and I could lead you only three streets from here and show you
something with this promise: you would feel more good feeling and pleasure than ever before for you: you would never again feel
sorrow or pity or the pain of the chains and cage of never choosing. I am thinking of this offer: you would reply to me what?'
      'I voot make ze hreply zat I've heard that one before, asshole, and from . .. from guys with a little more to them south of the
waist, if you follow.'
      'I do not understand.'
      'What I'd reply is I'm a shitty lay. As in sex-partner. I've only ever been sexual twice, and both times it was awful, and Brad
Anderson when I called and said why didn't you call again Brad Anderson you know what he said? He said I was a lousy lay and
my snatch was sure awful big for somebody with such a little flat ass, Brad Anderson said.'
      'No. No. You are not understanding.'
      'That's just what I said.'
      'You would say No Thank You, you are saying, but this is because you would not believe my claim.'
      '...'
      'If my claim, it was true, you would say yes, Katherine, no?'
      '...'
      'Yes?'