     6 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     White halogen off the green of the composite surface, the light out on the indoor courts at the Port Washington Tennis
Academy is the color of sour apples. To the spectators at the gallery's glass, the duos of players arrayed and moving down below
have a reptilian tinge to their skin, a kind of seasick-type pallor. This annual meet is mammoth: both academies' A and B teams
for both Boys and Girls, both singles and doubles, in 14 and Unders, 16 and Unders, 18 and Unders. Thirty-six courts stretch out
down away from one end's gallery under a fancy tri-domed system of permanent all-weather Lung.
     A jr. tennis team has six people on it, with the highest-ranked playing # 1 singles against the other team's best guy, the next-
highest-ranked playing #2, and on down the line to #6. After the six singles matches there are three doubles, with a team's best two
singles players usually turning around and also playing #l doubles -- with occasional exceptions, e.g. the Vaught twins, or the fact
that Schacht and Troeltsch, way down on the B squad in 18's singles, play #2 doubles on E.T.A.'s 18's A team, because they've
been a doubles team since they were incontinent toddlers back in Philly, and they're so experienced and smooth together they can
wipe surfaces with the 18's A team's #3 and #4 singles guys, Coyle and Axford, who prefer to skip doubles altogether. It all tends
to get complicated, and probably not all that interesting -- unless you play.
     But so a normal meet between two junior teams is the best out of nine matches, whereas this mammoth annual early-
November thing between E.T.A. and P.W.T.A. will try to be the best out of 108. A 54-match-all conclusion is extremely unlikely
-- odds being 1 in 227 -- and has never happened in nine years. The meet's always down on Long Island because P.W.T.A. has
indoor courts out the bazoo. Each year the academy that loses the meet has to get up on tables at the buffet supper afterward and
sing a really silly song. An even more embarrassing transaction is supposed to take place in private between the two schools'
Headmasters, but nobody knows quite what. Last year Enfield lost 57-51 and Charles Tavis didn't say one word on the bus-ride
home and used the lavatory several times.
     But last year E.T.A. didn't have John Wayne, and last year H. J. Incan-denza hadn't yet exploded, competitively. John Wayne,
formerly of Mont-cerf, Quebec -- an asbestos-mining town ten clicks or so from the infamously rupture-prone Mercier Dam --
formerly the top-ranked junior male in Canada at sixteen as well as #5 overall in the Organization of North American Nations
Tennis Association computerized rankings, was finally successfully recruited by Gerhardt Schtitt and Aubrey deLint last spring
via the argument that two gratis years at an American academy would maybe let Wayne bypass the usual couple seasons of top
college tennis and go pro immediately at nineteen with more than enough competitive tempering. This reasoning was not unsound,
since the top four U.S. tennis academies' tournament schedules closely resemble the A.T.P. tour in terms of numbing travel and
continual stress. John Wayne is currently ranked #3 in the O.N.A.N.T.A.'s Boys' 18's and *2 in the U.S.T.A. (Canada, under
Provincial pressure, has disowned him as an emigrant) and has in this Year of the Depend Adult Undergarment reached the semis
of both the Junior French and Junior U.S. Opens, and has lost to exactly nobody American in seven meets and a dozen major
tournaments. He trails the #l American kid, an Independent8585 down in Florida, Veach, by only a couple U.S.T.A. computer
points, and they haven't yet met in sanctioned play this year, and the kid is well known to be hiding out from Wayne, avoiding
him, staying down in Pompano Beach, allegedly nursing a like four-month groin-pull, sitting on his ranking. He's supposed to
show at the WhataBurger Invitational in AZ in a couple weeks, this Veach, having won the 18's at age seventeen there last year,
but he's got to know Wayne's coming down, and speculation is rife and complex. O.N.A.N.T.A.-wise, there's an Argentine kid that
Mexico's Academia de Vera Cruz has got rat-holed away who's #1 and not about to lose to anybody, having this year taken three
out of four legs of the Junior Grand Slam, the first time anybody's done that since a sepulchral Czech kid named Lendl, who
retired from the Show and suicided well before the advent of Subsidized Time. But so there's Wayne at #l.
     And it's been established that Hal Incandenza, last year a respectable but by no means to-write-home-about 43rd nationally
and bouncing between #4 and #5 on the Academy's A team in Boys' 16's singles, has made a kind of quantumish competitive
plateaux-hop such that this year -- the one nearly done, Kimberly-Clark Corp.'s Depend Absorbent Products Division soon to
give way to the highest corporate bidder for rights to the New Year -- Incandenza, mind you this year just seventeen, is 4th in the
nation and #6 on the O.N.A.N.T.A. computer and playing A-#2 for E.T.A. in Boys' 18's. These competitive explosions happen
sometimes. Nobody at the Academy talks to Hal much about the explosion, sort of the way you avoid a pitcher who's got a no-
hitter going. Hal's delicate and spinny, rather cerebral game hasn't altered, but this year it seems to have grown a beak. No longer
fragile or abstracted-looking on court, he seems now almost to hit the corners without thinking about it. His Unforced-Error stats
look like a decimal-error.
      Hal's game involves attrition. He'll probe, pecking, until some angle opens up. Until then he'll probe. He'd rather run his man
ragged, wear him down. Three different opponents this past summer had to go to oxygen during breaks.8686 His serve yanks
across at people as if on a hidden diagonal string. His serve, now, suddenly, after four summers of thousand-a-day serves to no
one at dawn, is suddenly supposed to be one of the best left-handed kick serves the junior circuit has ever seen. Schtitt calls Hal
Incandenza his 'revenant,' now, and sometimes points his pointer at him in an affectionate way from his observation crow's nest in
the transom, during drills.
      Most of the singles' A matches are under way. Coyle and his man on 3 are in an endless butterfly-shaped rally. Hal's muscular
but unquick opponent is bent over trying to get his breath while Hal stands there and futzes with his strings. Tall Paul Shaw on 6
bounces the ball eight times before he serves. Never seven or nine.
      And John Wayne's without question the best male player to appear at Enfield Academy in several years. He'd been spotted
first by the late Dr. James Incandenza at age six, eleven summers back, when Incandenza was doing an early and coldly
conceptual Super-8 on people named John Wayne who were not the real thespio-historical John Wayne, a film Wayne's not-to-be-
fucked-with papa eventually litigated the kid's segment out of because the film had the word Homo in the title.8787
      On 1, with John Wayne up at net, Port Washington's best boy throws up a lob. It's a beauty: the ball soars slowly up, just
skirts the indoor courts' system of beams and lamps, and floats back down gentle as lint: a lovely quad-function of fluorescent
green, seams whirling. John Wayne backpedals and flies back after it. You can tell -- if you play seriously -- you can tell just by
the way the ball comes off a guy's strings whether the lob is going to land fair. There's surprisingly little thought. Coaches tell
serious players what to do so often it gets automatic. John Wayne's game could be described as having a kind of automatic beauty.
When the lob first went up he'd backpedaled from the net, keeping the ball in sight until it reached the top of its flight and its
curve broke, casting many shadows in the tray of lights hung from the ceiling's insulation; then Wayne turned his back to the ball
and sprinted flat-out for the spot where it will land fair. Would land. He doesn't have to locate the ball again until it's hit the green
court just inside the baseline. By now he's come around the side of the bounced ball's flight, still sprinting. He looks mean in a
kind of distant way. He comes around the side of the bounced ball's second ascent the way you come up around the side of
somebody you're going to hurt, and he has to leave his feet and half-pirouette to get his side to the ball and whip his big right arm
through it, catching it on the rise and slapping it down the line past the Port Washington boy, who's played the percentages and
followed a beauty of a lob up to net. The Port Washington kid applauds with the heel of his hand against his strings in
acknowledgment of a really nice get, even as he looks up at Port Washington's coaching staff in the gallery. The spectators' glass
panel is at ground level, and the players play below it on courts that have been carved out of a kind of pit, dug long ago: some
northeast clubs favor courts below ground, because earth insulates and keeps utility bills daunting instead of prohibitive, once the
Lungs go up. The gallery panel stretches overhead behind Courts 1 through 6, but there's a decided spectatorial clumping at the
part of the gallery that looks out over the Show Courts, Boys' 18's #1 and #2, Wayne and Hal and P.W.T.A.'s two best. Now after
Wayne's balletic winner there's the sad sound of a small crowd behind glass's applause; on the courts the applause is muffled and
compromised by on-court sounds, and sounds like the trapped survivors of something tapping for help at a great depth. The panel
is like an aquarium's glass, thick and clean, and traps noise behind it, and to the gallery it seems that 72 well-muscled children are
arrayed and competing in total silence in the pit. Almost everyone in the gallery is wearing tennis clothes and bright nylon warm-
ups; some even wear wristbands, the tennis equivalent of a football fan's pennant and raccoon coat.
      John Wayne's post-pirouette backward inertia has carried him into the heavy black tarpaulin that hangs several meters behind
both sides of the 36 courts on a system of rods and rings not unlike a very ambitious shower-curtain, the tarps hiding from view
the waterstained walls of puffy white-wrapped insulation and creating a narrow passage for players to get to their courts without
crossing open court and interrupting play. Wayne hits the heavy tarp and kind of bounces off, producing a boom that resounds.
The sounds on court in an indoor venue are huge and complex; everything echoes and the echoes then meld. In the gallery, Tavis
and Nwangi bite their knuckles and deLint squashes his nose flat against the glass in anxiety as everyone else politely applauds.
Schtitt calmly taps his pointer against the top of his boot at times of high stress. Wayne isn't hurt, though. Everybody goes into the
tarp sometimes. That's what it's there for. It always sounds worse than it is.
      The boom of the tarp sounds bad down below, though. The boom rattles Teddy Schacht, who's kneeling in the little passage
right behind Court 1, holding M. Pemulis's head as Pemulis down on one knee is sick into a tall white plastic spare-ball bucket.
Schacht has to haul Pemulis slightly back as Wayne's outline bulges for a moment into the billowing tarp and threatens to knock
Pemulis over, plus maybe the bucket, which would be a bad scene. Pemulis, deep into the little hell of his own nauseous pre-
match nerves, is too busy trying to vomit w/o sound to hear the mean sound of Wayne's winner or the boom of him against the
heavy curtain. It's freezing back here in the little passage, up next to insulation and I-beams and away from the infrared heaters
that hang over the courts. The plastic bucket is full of old bald Wilson tennis balls and Pemulis's breakfast. There is of course an
odor. Schacht doesn't mind. He lightly strokes the sides of Pemulis's head as his mother had stroked his own big sick head, back in
Philly.
      Placed at eye-level intervals in the tarp are little plastic windows, archer-slit views of each court from the cold backstage
passage. Schacht sees John Wayne walk to the net-post and flip his card as he and his opponent change sides. Even indoors, you
change ends of the court after every odd-numbered game. No one knows why odd rather than even. Each P.W.T.A. court has,
welded to its west net-post, another smaller post with a double set of like flippable cards with big red numerals from 1 to 7; in
umpless competition you're supposed to flip your card appropriately at every change of sides, to help the gallery follow the score
in the set. A lot of junior players neglect to flip their cards. Wayne is always automatic and scrupulous in his accounts. Wayne's
father is an asbestos miner who at forty-three is far and away the seniorest guy on his shift; he now wears triple-thick masks and is
trying to hold on until John Wayne can start making serious $ and take him away from all this. He has not seen his eldest son play
since John Wayne's Qué-becois and Canadian citizenships were revoked last year. Wayne's card is on (5); his opponent has yet to
flip a card. Wayne never even sits down to take the 60 seconds he's allowed on each change of sides. His opponent, in his light-
blue flare-collared shirt with WILSON and P.W.T.A. on the sleeves, says something not unfriendly as Wayne brushes past him by
the post. Wayne doesn't respond one way or the other. He just goes back to the baseline farthest from Schacht's little tarp-window
and bounces a ball up and down in the air with the reticulate face of his stick as the Port Washington boy sits in his little canvas
director's chair and towels the sweat off his arms (neither of which is large) and looks briefly up at the gallery behind the panel.
The thing about Wayne is he's all business. His face on court is blankly rigid, with the hypertonic masking of schizophrenics and
Zen adepts. He tends to look straight ahead at all times. He is about as reserved as they come. His emotions emerge in terms of
velocity. Intelligence as strategic focus. His play, like his manner in general, seems to Schacht less alive than undead. Wayne
tends to eat and study alone. He's sometimes seen with two or three expatriate E.T.A. Nucks, but when they're together they all
seem morose. It's wholly unclear to Schacht how Wayne feels about the U.S. or his citizenship-status. He figures Wayne figures it
doesn't much matter: he is destined for the Show; he will be an all-business entertainer, citizen of the world, everywhere undead,
endorsing juice drinks and liniment ointment.
      Pemulis has nothing left and is spasming dryly over the bucket, his covered Dunlop gut-strung sticks and gear tumbled just
past Schacht's in the passage. They are the last guys to get out on court. Schacht is to play #3 singles on the 18's B team, Pemulis
#6-B. They are undeniably tardy getting out there. Their opponents stand out on the baselines of Courts 9 and 12 waiting for them
to come out and warm up, jittery, stretching out the way you do when you've already stretched out, dribbling fresh bright balls
with their black Wilson widebody sticks. The whole Port Washington Tennis Academy student body gets free and mandatory
Wilson sticks under an administrative contract. Nothing personal, but no way would Schacht let an academy tell him what brand
of stick to swing. He himself favors Head Masters,-which is regarded as bizarre and eccentric. The AMF-Head rep brings them
out to him out of some cobwebby warehouse where they're kept since the line was discontinued during the large-head revolution
many years back. Aluminum Head Masters have small, perfectly round heads and a dull blue plastic brace in the V of the throat
and look less like weapons than toys. Coyle and Axford are always kibitzing that they've seen a Head Master for sale at like a flea
market or garage sale someplace and Schacht better get down there quick. Schacht, who's historically tight with Mario and with
Lyle down in the weight room (where Schacht, since the knee and the Crohn's Disease, likes to go even on off-days, to work off
discomfort, and deLint and Loach are always on him about not getting musclebound), has a way of just smiling and holding his
tongue when he's kibitzed.
      'Are you okay?'
      Pemulis says 'Blarg.' He wipes at his forehead in a gesture of completion and submits to being hauled to his feet and stands
there on his own with his hands on his hips, slightly bent.
      Schacht straightens and pulls some wrinkles out of the bandage around the brace on his knee. 'Take maybe another second.
Wayne's already way up.'
      Pemulis sniffs unpleasantly. 'How come this happens to me every time? This is not like me.'
      'Happens to some people is all.'
      'This hunched spurting pale guy is not any me I ever recognize.'
      Schacht gathers gear. 'Some people their nerves are in their stomachs. Cisne, Yard-Guard, Lord, you: stomach men.'
      'Teddy brother man I'm never once hung-over for a competitive thing. I take elaborate precautions. Not so much as a whippet.
I'm always in bed the night before by 2300 all pink-cheeked and clean.'
      As they pass the plastic window behind Court 2 Schacht sees Hal Incan-denza try to pass his serve-and-volley guy with a
baroque sideways slice down the backhand side and miss just wide. Hal's card's already flipped to (4). Schacht gives a little
toodleoo-wave that Hal can't see to acknowledge. Pemulis is in front of him as they go down the cold passage.
      'Hal's way up too. Another victory for the forces of peace.'
      'Jesus I feel awful,' Pemulis says.
      'Things could be worse.'
      'Expand on that, will you?'
      'This wasn't like that Atlanta stomach-incident. We were enclosed here. No one saw. You saw that glass; to Schtitt and deLint
it's all a silent movie down here. Nobody heard thing one. Our guys'll think we were back here butting heads to get enraged or
something. Or we can tell them I got a cramp. That was a freebie, in terms of stomach-incidents.'
      Pemulis is a whole different person before competitive play.
      T'm fucking inept.'
      Schacht laughs. 'You're one of the eptest people I know. Get off your own back.'
      'Never remember getting sick as a kid. Now it's like I make myself sick just from worrying about getting sick.'
      'Well then there you go. Just don't think anything thoracic. Pretend you don't have a stomach.'
      'I have no stomach,' Pemulis says. His head stays still when he talks, at least, negotiating the passage. He carries four sticks, a
rough white P.W.T.A. locker-room towel, an empty ball-can full of high-chlorine Long Island water, nervously zipping and
unzipping the top stick's cover. Schacht only ever carries three sticks. His don't have covers on them. Except for Pemulis and
Rader and Unwin and a couple others who favor gut strings and really need protection, nobody at Enfield uses racquet-covers; it's
like an antifashion statement. People with covers make a point of telling you they're valid and for gut. A similar point of careful
nonpride is never having their shirts tucked in. Ortho Stice used to drill in cut-off black jeans until Schtitt had Tony Nwangi go
over and scream at him about it. Each academy has its own style or antistyle. The P.W.T.A. people, more or less a de facto
subsidiary of Wilson, have unnecessary light-blue Wilson covers on all their courtside synthetic-strung sticks and big red Ws
stencilled onto their Wilson synth-gut strings. You have to let your company of choice spraypaint their logo on your strings if you
want to be on their Free List for sticks, is the universal junior deal. Schacht's orange Gamma-9 synthetic strings have AMF-Head
Inc.'s weird Taoist paraboloid logo sprayed on. Pemulis isn't on Dunlop's Free List8888 but gets the E.T.A. stringer to put
Dunlop's dot-and-circumflex trademark on all his stick's strings, as a kind of touchingly insecure gesture, in Schacht's opinion.
      'I played your guy in Tampa two years ago,' Pemulis says, sidestepping one of the old discolored drill-balls that always litter
passages behind indoor tarps. 'Name escapes.'
      'Le-something,' says Schacht. 'Yet another Nuck. One of those names that start with Le.' Mario Incandenza, in a pair of little
Audern Tallat-Kelpsa's E.T.A. drill-sweats, is lurching noiselessly some ten m. behind them in the passage, his police-lock up and
head uncamera'd; he's framing Schacht's back in a three-cornered box with his thumbs and long fingers, simulating the view
through a lens. Mario's been authorized to travel with the squads to the WhataBurger Invitational for final footage for his short and
upbeat annual documentary -- brief testimonials and lighthearted moments and behind-the-scenes shots and emotional moments
on court, etc. -- that every year gets distributed to E.T.A. alumni and patrons and guests at the pre-Thanksgiving fundraising
exhibition and formal fete. Mario is wondering how you could get enough light back here in a tarp-tunnel to film a tense cold pre-
match gladiatorial march behind an indoor tarp, carrying tennis racquets in your arms like an obscene bouquet, without sacrificing
the dim and diffuse and kind of gladiatorially doomed quality figures in the dim passage have. After Pemulis has mysteriously
won, he'll tell Mario maybe a Marino 350 with a diffusion-filter on some kind of overhead cable you could winch along behind
the figures at about twice the focal length, or else use fast film and station the Marino at the tunnel's very start and let the figures'
backs gradually recede into a kind of doomed mist of low exposure.
      'I remember your guy as one big forehand. Nothing but slice off the back. His VAPS never varies. If you kick the serve over
to the backhand he'll slice it short. You can come in behind it at like will.'
      'Worry about your own guy,' Schacht says.
      'Your guy's got zero imagination.'
      'And you've got an empty expanse where your stomach ought to be, remember.'
      'I am a man with no stomach.'
      They emerge through flaps in the tarp with hands upraised in slight apology to their opponents, walk out onto the warmer
courts, the slow green eraserish footing of indoor composite. Their ears dilate into all the sounds in the larger space. Gasps and
thwaps and pocks and sneakers' squeaks. Pemulis's court is almost down in female territory. Courts 13 to 24 are Girls' 18's A and
B, all bobbing ponytails and two-handed backhands and high-pitched grunts that if girls could only hear what their own grunts
sounded like they'd cut it out. Pemulis can't tell whether the very muffled applause way down up behind the gallery-panel is
sardonic applause at his finally appearing after several minutes of vomiting or is sincerely for K. D. Coyle on Court 3, who's just
smashed a sucker-lob so hard it's bounced up and racked 3's tray of hanging lights. Except for some rubber in his legs Pemulis
feels stomachless and tentatively OK. This match is an all-out must-win for him in terms of the WhataBurger.
      The infra-lit courts are warm and soft; the heaters bolted into both walls above the tarp's upper hem are the deep warm red of
little square suns.
      The Port Washington players all wear matching socks and shorts and tucked-in shirts. They look sharp but effete, a
mannequinish aspect to them. Most of the higher-ranked E.T.A. students are free to sign on with different companies for no fees
but free gear. Coyle is Prince and Reebok, as is Trevor Axford. John Wayne is Dunlop and Adidas. Schacht is Head Master sticks
but his own clothes and knee-supports. Ortho Stice is Wilson and all-black Fila. Keith Freer is Fox sticks and both Adidas and
Reebok until one of the two companies' NNE reps catches on. Troeltsch is Spalding and damn lucky to get that. Hal Incandenza is
Dunlop and lightweight Nike hightops and an Air Stirrup brace for the dicky ankle. Shaw is Kennex sticks and clothes from
Tachani's Big St Tall line. Pemulis's entrepreneurial vim has earned him complete freedom of choice and expense, though he's
barred by deLint and Nwangi from shirts that mention the Sinn Fein or that extol Allston MA in any way, in competition.
      Before going back to the baseline and warming up groundstrokes Schacht likes to take a little time courtside futzing around,
hitting his heads' frames against strings and listening for the pitch of best tension, arranging his towel on the back of his chair,
making sure his cards aren't still flipped from some previous match, etc., and then he prefers to sort of snuffle around his baseline
for a bit, checking for dustbunnies of ball-fuzz and little divots or ridges from cold-weather heave, adjusting the brace on his
ruined knee, putting his thick arms out cruciform and pulling them way back to stretch out the old pecs and cuffs. His opponent
waits patiently, twirling his poly-butylene stick; and when they finally start to hit around, the guy's expression is pleasant. Schacht
always prefers a pleasant match, one way or the other. He really doesn't care all that much whether he wins anymore, since first
the Crohn's and then the knee at sixteen. He'd probably now describe his desire to win as a preference, nothing more. What's
singular is that his tennis seems to have improved slightly in the two years since he stopped really caring. It's like his hard flat
game stopped having any purpose beyond itself and started feeding on itself and got fuller, looser, its edges less jagged, though
everybody else has been improving too, even faster, and Schacht's rank has been steadily declining since sixteen, and the staff has
stopped talking even about a top-college ride. Schtitt's warmed to him, though, since the knee and the loss of any urge beyond the
play itself, and treats Schacht now almost more like a peer than an experimental subject with something at stake. Schacht is
already in his heart committed to a dental career, and he even interns twice a week for a root-specialist over at the National
Cranio-Facial Pain Foundation, in east Enfield, when not touring.
      It strikes Schacht as odd that Pemulis makes such a big deal of stopping all substances the day before competitive play but
never connects the neurasthenic stomach to any kind of withdrawal or dependence. He'd never say this to Pemulis unless Pemulis
asked him directly, but Schacht suspects Pemulis is physically 'drine-dependent, Preludin or Tenuate or something. It's not his
business.
      Schacht's supposedly French-Canadian guy is as broad as Schacht but shorter, his face dark and with a kind of Eskimoid
structure to it, at eighteen his hairline recessed in the sort of way where you just know the kid's already got hair on his back, and
he warms up with crazy spins, moony top off a western forehand and weird inside-out shit off a one-hand back, his knees dipping
oddly whenever he makes contact and his follow-through full of the dancerly flourishes that characterize a case of nerves. A
nervous spin-artist can be eaten more or less for lunch, if you hit as hard as Schacht does, and what Pemulis said is true: the guy's
backhand is always sliced and lands shallow. Schacht looks over at Pemulis's guy, a grunter with a moody profile and the storky
look of recent puberty. Pemulis is looking oddly sanguine and confident after a couple minutes futzing with the cans of water,
rinsing out the oral cavity and so on. Pemulis is maybe going to win, too, despite himself. Schacht figures he can run in and get
one of the twelve-year-olds he Big Buddies to go back into the passage and empty Pemulis's bucket on the sly before anybody
coming off court sees it. Evidence of nervous incapacity of any kind gets noted and logged, at E.T.A., and Schacht's observed
Pemulis having some kind of vested emotional interest in attending the WhataBurger Inv. over Thanksgiving. He thought Mario's
lurking around in the cold passage scratching his poor big head over technical lighting problems was kind of funny. There will be
no Lungs or tarps or dim passages at the WhataBurger: the Tucson tournament is outside, and Tucson cruised around 40° C even
in November, and the sun there was a retinal horror-show on overheads and serves.
      Though Schacht buys quarterly urine like the rest of them, it seems to Pemulis that Schacht ingests the occasional chemical
that way grownups who sometimes forget to finish their cocktails drink liquor: to make a tense but fundamentally OK interior life
interestingly different but no more, no element of relief; a kind of tourism; and Schacht doesn't even have to worry about
obsessive training like Inc or Stice or get sick so often from the physical stress of constant 'drines like Troeltsch or suffer from
thinly disguised psychological fallout like Inc or Struck or Pemulis himself. The way Pemulis and Troeltsch and Struck and
Axford ingest substances and recover from substances and have a whole jargony argot based around various substances gives
Schacht the creeps, a bit, but since the knee injury broke and remade him at sixteen he's learned to go his own interior way and let
others go theirs. Like most very large men, he's getting comfortable early with the fact that his place in the world is very small and
his real impact on other persons even smaller -- which is a big reason he can sometimes forget to finish his portion of a given
substance, so interested does he become in the way he's already started to feel. He's one of these people who don't need much,
much less much more.
      Schacht and his opponent warm up their groundstrokes with the fluid economy of years of warming up groundstrokes. They
take turns feeding each other some volleys at net and then each take a 'couple up,' lobs, hitting loose easy overheads, slowly
adjusting the idle from half-speed to three-quarter-speed. The knee feels fundamentally all right, springy. Slow indoor composite
surfaces do not like Schacht's hard flat game, but they are kind to the knee, which after some days outside on hard cement swells
to about the size of a volleyball. Schacht feels blandly happy down here on 9, playing in private, way down past the gallery's
panel. There is a nourishing sense of pregnable space in a big indoor club that you never get playing outside, especially playing
outside in the cold, when the balls feel hard and sullen and come off the stick's strung face with an echoless ping. Here everything
cracks and booms, the grunts and shoe-squeaks and booming pocks of impact and curses unfolding across the white-on-green
plane and echoing off each tarp. Soon they'll all go inside for the winter. Schtitt will yield and let them inflate the E.T.A. Lung
over the sixteen Center Courts; it's like a barn-raising, inflation-day; it's communal and fun, and they'll take down the central
fences and outdoor night-lamps and unbolt all the posts into sections and stack them and store them, and the TesTar and
ATHSCME guys will come up in vans smoking cigarettes and squinting with weary expertise at tubes of plans in draftsman-blue,
and there'll be one and sometimes two ATHSCME helicopters w/ slings and grappling hooks for the Lung's dome and nacelle; and
Schtitt and deLint will let the younger E.T.A.s get the infrared indoor heaters out of the same corrugated shed the disassembled
fences and lamps will go in, leaf-cutter-ant- or Korean-like armies of 14- and 16-year-olds carrying sections and heaters and Gore-
Tex swatches and long halo-lithiated bulbs while the 18s get to sit on canvas chairs and kibitz because they did their leaf-cutter
Lung-raising bits at 13-16 already. Two TesTar guys'll supervise Otis P. Lord and all this year's conspicuous tech-wonks in
mounting the heaters and stringing the lights and running coaxial shunts with ceramic jacks between the Pump Room's main
breaker and the Sunstrand grid and booting up the circulation-fans and pneumatic hoists that'll raise the Lung to the inflated shape
of a distended igloo, sixteen courts in four rows of four, enclosed and warmed by nothing but fibrous Gore-Tex and AC current
and an enormous ATHSCME Exhaust-Flow Effectuator that an ATHSCME crew in one of the ATHSCME helicopters will bring
in in a sling and cable and mount and secure on the Lung's nipply nacelle at the top of the inflating dome. And that first night after
Inflation, traditionally the fourth Monday of November, all the upperclass 18s so inclined will crank up the infrareds and get high
and eat low-lipid microwave pizza and play all night, sweating magnificently, sheltered for the winter atop Enfield's levelheaded
hill.
      Schacht stands back in the deuce court and lets his guy warm up his serves, oddly flat and low-margin for a nervous touch-
artist. Schacht bloops each return up with severe backspin so the balls'll roll back to him and he can serve them back to his guy,
also warming up. The warm-up routine has become automatic and requires no attention. Way up on #l, Schacht sees John Wayne
just plaster a backhand cross-court. Wayne hits it so hard a little mushroom cloud of green fuzz hangs in the air where ball had
met strings. Their cards were too far to read in the sour-apple light, but you could tell by the way Port Washington's best boy
walked back to the baseline to take the next serve that his ass had already been presented to him. In a lot of junior matches
everything past the fourth game or so is kind of a formality. Both players tend to know the overall score by then. The big picture.
They'll have decided who's going to lose. Competitive tennis is largely mental, once you're at a certain plateau of skill and
conditioning. Schtitt'd say spiritual instead of mental, but as far as Schacht can see it's the same thing. As Schacht sees it, Schtitt's
philosophical stance is that to win enough of the time to be considered successful you have to both care a great deal about it and
also not care about it at all.8989 Schacht does not care enough, probably, anymore, and has met his gradual displacement from
E.T.A.'s A singles squad with an equanimity some E.T.A.'s thought was spiritual and others regarded as the surest sign of
dicklessness and burnout. Only one or two people have ever used the word brave in connection with Schacht's radical
reconfiguration after the things with the Crohn's Disease and knee. Hal Incandenza, who's probably as asymetrically hobbled on
the care-too-much side as Schacht is on the not-enough, privately puts Schacht's laissez-faire down to some interior decline, some
doom-gray surrender of his childhood's promise to adult gray mediocrity, and fears it; but since Schacht is an old friend and a
dependable designated driver and has actually gotten pleasanter to be around since the knee -- which Hal prays fervently that the
ankle won't start being the size of a volleyball itself at the end of each outdoor day -- Hal in a weird and deeper internal way
almost somehow admires and envies the fact that Schacht's stoically committed himself to the oral professions and stopped
dreaming of getting to the Show after graduation -- an air of something other than failure about Schacht's not caring enough,
something you can't quite define, the way you can't quite remember a word that you know you know, inside -- Hal can't quite feel
the contempt for Teddy Schacht's competitive slide that would be a pretty much natural contempt in one who cared so dreadfully
secretly much, and so the two of them tend to settle for not talking about it, just as Schacht cheerfully wordlessly drives the tow
truck on occasions when the rest of the crew are so incapacitated they'd have to hold one eye closed even to see an undoubled
road, and consents w/o protest to pay retail for clean quarterly urine, and doesn't say a word about Hal's devolution from
occasional tourist to subterranean compulsive, substance-wise, with his Pump Room visits and Visine, even though Schacht deep
down believes that the substance-compulsion's strange apparent contribution to Hal's erumpent explosion up the rankings has got
to be a temporary thing, that there's like a psychic credit-card bill for Hal in the mail, somewhere, coming, and is sad for him in
advance about whatever's surely got to give, eventually. Though it won't be the Boards. Hal'll murder his Boards, and Schacht
may well be among those jockeying to sit near him, he'd be the first to admit. On 2 Hal now kicks a second serve to the ad court
with so much left-handed top on it that it almost kicks up over Port Washington's #2 guy's head. It's clearly carnage up there on
Show Courts 1 and 2. Dr. Tavis will be irrepressible. The gallery is barely even applauding Wayne and Incandenza anymore; at a
certain point it becomes like Romans applauding lions. All the coaches and staff and P.W.T.A. parents and civilians in the
overhead gallery wear tennis outfits, the high white socks and tucked-in shirts of people who do not really play.
     Schacht and his man play.