

322
         17 NOV. Y.D.A.U.
    'Gracious me and mine,' Pemulis said, clutching the ankle of the leg he'd crossed to keep the foot from joggling.
    'Rusk and Charles and Mrs. Incandenza are with him now. Schtitt's been up to see him. Loach has done a thorough reflex-check. John Wayne's
going to be OK.'
    'Well thank heavens for that load off everyone's mind,' Pemulis said.
    It was Pemulis, deLint, Nwangi, and Watson in the Dean of Academic Affairs' Office. Mrs. Inc's ventilator hissed and something up in there
whirred a little. DeLint was behind the high desk, looking like a mean little boy. Nobody'd said if anybody higher up than deLint was going to show.
Pemulis didn't know if this was good or bad.
    'Let's make perfectly sure we got this in order and in your words.' Nwangi and Watson were window-dressing. This was A. deLint's show. His
face kind of came apart when he smiled. 'With no prior knowledge of anything untoward, you're pulled from the locker room and stand out in the
hall with several other students, which is your first knowledge anything's untoward with Wayne.'
    Pemulis figured none of the administrators had heard the thing; they always shut their soundproof doors at I435h.; Pemulis had no idea what
Wayne's said about anything, or Jim Troeltsch, who very prudently hasn't shown facial-feature one in their room since the apocalyptic broadcast.
It'd taken Pemulis about half the salivaless sprint up to B-204 to figure out what had happened and to find his pilfered Tenuates in the little
pecker's Sel-dane bottle. Pemulis sort of shuddered to imagine the impact of the 'drine on Wayne's cherry-red and virgin bloodstream. The slight
whir of his cortex working at full speed was masked by the hiss of the ventilator and the sound of whistles and play and Schtitt's megaphone
outside.
    'I'm in there suiting up waiting for Freer and doing a little B.B.-intervention on Pos-salthwaite who was in crisis and Zoltan and The Darkness
come like spasming in saying Troeltsch'd jury-rigged the Duke into candid sharing for the WETA broadcast.'
    'They said what, that Troeltsch had tricked Wayne into speaking candidly without awareness it's going out over WETA into all the rooms?'
    Pemulis realized the limpness of this, in like that anybody'd see that Wayne'd have to have been sitting right there with Troeltsch by the little
old-time gunmetal handheld mike at Lateral Alice Moore's curved desk. He'd already heard from Lateral Alice that it was more like Wayne had come
rattling in and shoved Troeltsch aside and grabbed the mike and started ranting while Troeltsch and Lateral Alice Moore had looked on aghastly;
and that Dave Harde, down doing some maintainance to L.A.M.'s deactivated third rail, had been so aghasted he'd pitched forward narcoleptically
and stayed like that with his face in the blue carpet and ass in the air for nearly an hour, and that Lateral Alice's own stress had brought on an
aggravation of her chronic cyanosis to the point where her whole face was still blue-tinged and between her knees when Pemulis had got to her.
    'This was more like a general sort of impression which I feel like I might have misbegotten from the agitation of the guys. Plus how completely
un-Wayneish Wayne sounded, like how could anybody ever have said that shit if they thought it wasn't just them and Troeltsch alone, much less
Wayne, who as we all know is pretty much reserve in motion.'
    DeLint's nostrils got that pale flare they got, Pemulis knew, when he smelled horseshit and knew you knew it. Pemulis knows deLint's been laying
for him ever since the incident with the P.W.T.A. guy who started to wobble and then rant down at P.W.T.A., which was a totally different type of
deal. The irony was that the Wayne-dosing had been a total accident and in no way Pemulis's deal, if anybody's Troeltsch's, but the cortex couldn't
nail down any way to get this across without admitting to possession of a 'drine, which given the shaky pharmaceutical ground since the Eschaton
and O.N.A.N.T.A. urologist would be tantamount to Clippertonizing himself. Nwangi showed almost blinding 3rd-World teeth but was saying
nothing. Watson's eyes had almost this nictitater of stupidity-film on them, less a dullness than a deadness, the dead porch light of nobody home at
chez Tex Watson. Pemulis saw the leaflet about Wayne and Mrs. I. and deviant division in the papers deLint held.
    'Which is in your words your first knowledge of untowardness with Wayne.'
    'My first is I get out there still trying to counsel the Postheimer and here on the speaker's Wayne doing what Keith observed may have been a
sort of imitation of Dr. Tavis.'
    It had been uncanny. It had made Stice look like a rank amateur. Wayne had told Troeltsch to pretend he was some adolescent girl: this was
adolescent Tavis asking her for a date; Pemulis shuddered; he couldn't exactly remember all the little mannerisms, which Wayne'd clearly gotten
locked down from Tavis always sitting next to him on the bus back from victories going at him nonstop, but in outline it was Chuckie Tavis coming
up to some Canadian cheerleader or something and telling her he was going to be completely open with her: he had a terrible fear of rejection; he
was telling her up-front now that tomorrow he was going to ask her out for a date and was begging her not openly to reject him if she didn't want
to go, to think up some plausible excuse -- though of course he said he realized that what he was saying would make that excuse hard to believe,
now that he's openly asked her to make up an excuse.
    'Whereupon the whole Academy hears Mr. Troeltsch prompt Wayne into making public castigations of his various peers and instructors.'
    'I've got to say it did seem like Troeltsch had kind of orchestrated things somehow, sir, was my impression.'
    'Referring to Corbett Thorp as a --' pretending to riffle through the papers so Pemulis'd have to see the 17-into-56 leaflet several times as it
came up in the riffle.
    'I believe the expression was "a palsied twit," ' Nwangi said to deLint.
    'Yes "palsied twit." And Francis Unwin quote "has the on-court look of a cornered rodent." And Disney R. Leith: the quote "sort of man you
always end up sitting next to at civic functions." Ms. Richardson-Levy-o'Byrne-Chawaf as chair of some sort of committee dealing with the topic of
the quote "Itty Bitty Titty." On Coach Schtitt, quote, seeming as if he'd been "denied some kind of vitally important moisture from birth hencefor-
ward." Our own Mr. Nwangi here being in rough quote if I've got it quote "the sort of fellow who'll be in a Chinese restaurant with you and won't
even share food or trade food." `
    'Meaning mean-spirited.' Nwangi threw his head back and beamed like he was blind. What was chilling was that in Wayne's scenario Tavis does
succeed, Wayne projects, in seducing the Canadian cheerleader or whatever, even when he's totally open on the date about the fact that he'd
deliberately told her he was afraid of rejection in the first place only as a strategy to make him seem to her different from other boys, more honest
and open, so that the scenario was that the honesty was so exhausting she'd basically just laid back exhausted and let him X her just to shut him
up. Except -- chillingly -- he hadn't shut up.
    '-- including some sort of imitation of Dr. Tavis carrying on a monologue during the act of sexual intercourse,' deLint said, trying to find it in the
sheaf. 'On Bernadette Long-ley: "Bernadette Longley looks like her hair grew her head instead of the other way around." On Mary Esther Thode: "a
face like a pancake." On the Academy's own late Founder and husband of the Dean of Ac.-Aff.: "so full of himself he could have shit limbs."
Unquote. On his own doubles partner Hal Incandenza: "by all appearances addicted to everything that is not tied down, cannot outrun him, and is
fittable in the mouth." `
    'I'm remembering the word as insertable.' Pemulis kicked himself, mentally. The pancake thing had been expanded to like fifteen seconds as
Wayne had sketched M. E. Thode's face as circular, burned, freckled, cratered, doughy, shiny, soggy, on and on. Plus somehow even more chilling
was that Pemulis knew from Inc that Wayne's pseudo-Tavis 'I-live-in-fear-of-rejection' ploy was actually in the top five or ten of the troubling
'Strategies' that Inc's brother Orin the punter called up to Hal about employing to X young married women.
    'Donni Stott has we're informed "skin like an attache case and is a compelling advertisement for sunscreen." I myself am, here I quote, quote "a
man who would not lend his own mother a quarter for a rubber tip for her crutch." `
    'Is the emerging point that this is going to impact my getting to go on the WhataBurger trip?'
    Nwangi crumpled and slapped his knee. His face literally looked like a very dark hatchet. Tex Watson reached down behind the console he was
slumped in his chair by and brought out Pemulis's special yachting cap and dangled it like something you want a dog to jump for. From someplace
under Nwangi's chair were brought out two pharmaceutical scales, several jeweller's loupes, the tow truck's supply of empty sterile Visine bottles,
and plus every bottle from Troeltsch's bedside table, which clearly Troeltsch had eaten some enormous wedge of putrid deal-cutting cheese.
    Pemulis tasted the metallic taste of a seriously anxious stomach. 'I request to see the Dean of Ac.-Aff. before any of this goes further.'
    'We have again Ms. Heath, apparently on someone's mind very much today, now said to be the sort of person who quote "cries at card tricks."
We have a Rik Dunkel who "could not find his own bottom with both hands and a nautical compass of exacting precision." We have a return
engagement with Ms. Heath, described as "dwelling always at the edge of some vast continent of menstrual hysteria." We have our own beloved
Tex, sitting right here, described as having "a tiny liquid-filled nubbin at the top of the spine" in lieu of higher cortex function.'
    'Aubs, no kidding: something pressing I have to interface about with Mrs. Inc. Tell her it concerns U.S.-Canadian relations.'
    Nwangi's laugh was high and had the slight teakettle-wheeze to it of the laughs of large black men the world over. 'She sends you her regards,
the Dean said to tell you.' He slapped his knee three times.
    DeLint looked a little less happy because he clearly didn't know what any of it was about and didn't like playing coded messenger, but he still
looked pretty happy: 'Michael Mathew Pemulis, the Academy's Dean of Academic Affairs said to tell you the administration's too naturally concerned
about the state of one of our two very finest current talents, who it's clear he's been unwittily dosed with an artificial stimulant prohibited by federal
statute, O.N.A.N.T.A. regulations, and the Enfield Tennis Academy Honor-Code Specs on Artificial Substances, to permit itself the satisfaction of
giving you the Dean's very best regards and her wish that quote "may the road rise up to meet you whitherever your future travels lie." ' DeLint
probed his ear. 'I think that was it in a nutshell.'
    Pemulis got very cool and brass-mask-faced. He was breathing very clearly through his nose, and the office air seemed mentholated. Everything
got very cool and formal inside and glycerine-clear. 'Aubs, before anything gets nailed in stone that we'll all I promise you and Mrs. Inc we'll all of
us regret --'
    DeLint said 'I was given to understand you can either finish out the term for credit or you can hit the trail with your little sailing cap full of
pockets on a stick like a bandanna to some other O.N.A.N.T.A. institution and see if they'll take a senior without any kind of positive reference,
which the sense I get is the administration says fat chance on any kind of reference.'
    Tex Watson said something about urine.
    Pemulis recrossed his leg. DeLint looked at Nwangi:
    'I believe the kid is speechless.'
    'I believe he has nothing to say.'
    'I don't believe it.'
    'And something about you're invited to shout whatever you threatened the administration to shout about from the highest hill you can find,
which pretty soon won't be this one.'
    Nwangi got out through laughter: 'And that the administrative office doorknobs have been rubberized and grounded, the administrative files all
recryptographilated, everyone's room's mirrors reanodized and sealed with Plastic Wood, Mrs. Inc said to tell you.'
    The little deck-of-cards riffle of the wings of the Shit Fairy, which he privately envisions as a kind of violet incubus with the Da's saggy frown.
Pemulis scratched very coolly next to his ear. 'And this affects the WhataBurger, my chances?'
DeLint told Pemulis he just fucking slayed him while Watson looked from face to face and Nwangi rocked and wheezed and slapped at his knee,
and Pemulis, close-mouthed and breathing with terrible ease, found their good humor almost infectious.

