

259

   Saprogenic Greetings*
   WHEN YOU CARE ENOUGH TO LET A PROFESSIONAL SAY IT FOR YOU
   *a proud member of the ACME Family of Gags 'N Notions, Pre-Packaged Emotions, Jokes and Surprises and Wacky Disguises
   Ms. Helen Steepley And So On November Y.D.A.U.
   ... (1) Orin Incandenza and I played, practiced, and generally hung out through most of what seemed at the time to be our formative years. We
met because I kept encountering him across the net in the local tennis tournaments we played around metro Boston, Boys' 10's. We were the two
best 10-year-old males in Boston. We soon became practice partners, our mothers driving us every weekday afternoon to a junior development
program at the Auburndale Tennis Club in West Newton. After my own parents were horribly killed on the Jamaica Way commuter road one
morning in the freak crash of a radio traffic-report helicopter, I became a sort of hanger-on at the Incandenza house out in Weston. When J.O.I,
founded the Academy, I was one of the first matriculants. Orin and I were inseparable until around age 15, when I reached my own zenith in terms
of early puberty and athletic promise and began to be able to beat him. He took it hard. We were never inseparable again. We spent quantity time
together again briefly for a few months the next year, during a period when we both experimented heavily with recreational substances. We both
ended up losing enthusiasm for substances after only a couple years, Orin because he had finally entered puberty and had discovered the weaker
sex and found he needed all his faculties and guile, myself because a couple of really negative methoxy-psychedelic experiences left me with
certain Disabilities that to this day make normal life an exceptional challenge, and which I tend to blame on having done deadly-serious
hallucinogens at a sort of larval psychological stage during which no N. American adolescent should be allowed to do hallucinogens. These
Disabilities led to my departure from the Enfield Tennis Academy at 17, prior to graduation, and my withdrawal from competitive junior tennis and
contemporary life as we know it. Orin was largely burned out on tennis too by 17, though no one in his right mind could have foreseen a defection
to organized U.S. football in his future.
   A grunting, crunching ballet of repressed homoeroticism, football, Ms. Steepley, on my view. The exaggerated breadth of the shoulders, the
masked eradication of facial personality, the emphasis on contact-vs.-avoidance-of-contact. The gains in terms of penetration and resistance. The
tight pants that accentuate the gluteals and hamstrings and what look for all the world like codpieces. The gradual slow shift of venue to "artificial
surface," "artificial turf." Don't the pants' fronts look fitted with codpieces? And have a look at these men whacking each other's asses after a play.
It is like Swinburne sat down on his soul's darkest night and designed an organized sport. And pay no attention to Orin's defense of football as a
ritualized substitute for armed conflict. Armed conflict is plenty ritualized on its own, and since we have real armed conflict (take a spin through
Boston's Roxbury and Mattapan districts some evening) there is no need or purpose for a substitute. Football is pure homophobically repressed
nancy-ism, and do not let O. tell you different.
   . .. (3c) I cannot help you too much with the facts surrounding Dr. Incandenza's suicide. I know that he erased his own cartography in a grisly
way. I was told that in the year leading up to his death Dr. Incandenza was abusing ethyl alcohol on a daily basis and was working on a whole new
genre of film-cartridge that Orin at the time claimed was driving Dr. Inc insane.
   . . . (3e) The supposed cause of their separation is that Dr. Incandenza began using her in his work more and more extensively and eventually
asked her to perform in the prenominate completely radical new type of filmed entertainment that supposedly was driving him to a breakdown.
They supposedly became close, James and Jo-Ellen, though Orin in my judgment is not a reliable source of information about their relationship.
   The only other apposite fact I have -- and I have this not from Orin but from an innocent female relative of mine who was (briefly) in a position
to interface with our punter in an intimate and unguarded way impossible between hetero males -- is that some incident occurred in the
Incandenzas' Volvo involving one of the windows and a word -- all I am given is that O. reports that in the days prior to Dr. Incandenza's felo de
se, a so-called "word" appeared on a "fogged" "window" of Mrs. Inc's pale yellow Volvo, and the word cast a conjugal pall in all sorts of directions.
This is it.
   ... (5) The "vailed warning" (typo?) you refer to in my postal response to you is simply that you have to take what Orin says in a fairly high-
sodium way. I am not sure I would stand and point at Orin as an example of a classic pathological liar, but you have only to watch him in certain
kinds of action to see that there can be such a thing as sincerity with a motive. I have no idea what your relationship with Orin is or what your
feelings are -- and if Orin wishes it I am afraid I can predict your feelings for him will be strong -- so I shall just tell you that for instance at E.T.A.
I saw Orin in bars or at post-tournament dances go up to a young lady he would like to pick up and use this fail-safe cross-sectional pick-up
Strategy that involved an opening like "Tell me what sort of man you prefer, and then I'll affect the demeanor of that man." Which in a way of
course is being almost pathologically open and sincere about the whole picking-up enterprise, but also has this quality of Look-At-Me-Being-So-
Totally-Open-And-Sincere-I-Rise-Above-The-Whole-Disingenuous-Posing-Process-Of-Attracting-Someone-,-And -I-Transcend-The-Common-
Disingenuity-In-A-Bar-Herd-In-A-Particularly-Hip-And-Witty-Self-Aware-Way-,-And-If-You-Will-Let-Me-Pick-You-Up-I-Will-Not-Only-Keep - Being -
This - Wittily, - Transcendently - Open -, - But - Will - Bring-You - Into - This -World-Of-Social-Falsehood-Transcendence, which of course he
cannot do because the whole openness-demeanor thing is itself a purposive social falsehood; it is a pose of poselessness; Orin Incandenza is the
least open man I know. Spend a little time with Orin's Uncle Charles a.k.a. "Gretel the Cross-Sectioned Dairy Cow" Tavis if you want to see real
openness in motion, and you will see that genuine pathological openness is about as seductive as Tourette's syndrome.
   It is not that Orin Incandenza is a liar, but that I think he has come to regard the truth as constructed instead of reported. He came by this idea
educationally, is all I will add. He studied for almost eighteen years at the feet of the most consummate mind-fucker I have ever met, and even
now he remains so flummoxed he thinks the way to escape that person's influence is through renunciation and hatred of that person. Defining
yourself in opposition to something is still being anaclitic on that thing, isn't it? I certainly think so. And men who believe they hate what they really
fear they need are of limited interest, I find.
   . .. Again I will remind you that Orin and I are on the outs a bit at the moment, so some of my judgments may be temporarily short on charity.
   One reason Orin is not a straight-out liar is that Orin is not a particularly skillful liar. The few times I saw him try consciously to lie were pathetic.
This is one reason why his juvenile recreational-chemical phase passed so quickly compared to some of our colleagues at E.T.A. If you are going to
do serious drugs while you are still a minor and under your parents' roof, you are going to have to -lie often and lie well. Orin was a strangely
stupid liar. I am recalling there was one afternoon on Mrs. Clarke's day off when Mrs. Inc had to go off and overfunction somewhere and Orin was
supposed to baby-sit Mario and Hal, who were at the kind of crazed-toddler age where they would hurt themselves if they were not closely
supervised, and I was over, and Orin and I decided to dart up to the loft over the Weston house's garage to smoke a bit of Bob Hope, which is to
say high-resin marijuana, and in the loft, high, wandered disastrously into the sort of pseudophilosophical mental labyrinth that Bob Hope-smokers
are always wandering into and getting trapped in and wasting huge amounts of time3 inside
   a. This tendency to involuted abstraction is sometimes called "Marijuana Thinking"; and by the way, the so-called "Amotivational Syndrome"
consequent to massive Bob Hope-consumption is a misnomer, for it is not that Bob Hope-smokers lose interest in practical functioning, but rather
Marijuana-Think themselves into labyrinths of reflexive abstraction that seem to cast doubt on the very possibility of practical functioning, and the
mental labor of finding one's way out consumes all available attention and makes the Bob Hope-smoker look physically torpid and apathetic and
amoti-vated sitting there, when really he is trying to claw his way out of a labyrinth. Note that the overwhelming hunger (the so-called "munchies")
that accompanies cannabis intoxication may be a natural defense mechanism against this kind of loss of practical function, since there is no more
practical function anywhere than foraging for food.
   an intellectual room they cannot negotiate their way out of, and by the time we hadn't resolved the abstract problem that had put us into the
labyrinth but just as always had gotten so hungry we abandoned it and stumbled out and down the loft's wooden ladder, the sun was all the way
on the other side of the sky over Wayland and Sudbury, and the whole afternoon had passed without Hal and Mario having received any protective
supervision; and Hal and Mario somehow survived the afternoon, but when Mrs. Incan-denza returned that night she asked Orin what we and the
supervised toddlers had done all afternoon and Orin lied that we had all been right here, respectively playing and supervising, and Mrs. Incandenza
expressed puzzlement to Orin because she said she had tried to call the house several times that afternoon but was unable to get through, and
Orin replied that while supervising he had herded the toddlers carefully into rooms with phone-jacks and made calls and had been on the phone
several times for Jong periods of time for this that or the other thing, was why she had been unable to get through, at which Mrs. Incandenza (who
is extremely tall) had blinked several times and looked very confused and said that but the phone had not been busy, it had just rung and rung and
rung. At a juncture like this, men and boys get separated in terms of prevarication, I submit. And all Orin could come up with was a steady gaze as
he said, as if from the Rose Garden: "I have no response to that." Which incredibly stupid response he and I found very funny for weeks afterward,
especially since Mrs. Incandenza never punished and refused to act as if she believed lying was even a possibility as far as her children were
concerned, and treated an exploded lie as an insoluble cosmic mystery instead of an exploded lie.
   The worst instance of both Orin's mendacious idiocy and Mrs. Incandenza's unwillingness to countenance an idiotic lie came one grisly day soon
after Orin had finally gotten his vehicle operator's license. O. and I found ourselves with an idle weekday afternoon off in August after losing early
at a synthetic-grass tournament down at Long-wood, and Hal was still alive in what was then Boys' 10's and thus a good bit of the E.T.A. summer
community was still down at Longwood, including Mario and Mrs. Incandenza, who'd been driven down I remember by a sort of swarthily foreign-
looking moniíial-internist medical resident Mrs. Inc had introduced as a so-called "dear and cherished friend" but hadn't explained how they'd met,
and Dr. Incandenza was indisposed and not in a position to bother anyone that day, I remember, and Orin and I had most of E.T.A. to ourselves,
even the gate's portcullis unmanned and up, and this being at the acme of our interest in such things we wasted little time in ingesting some sort
of recreational substance, I cannot recall what kind but I remember them as particularly impairing, and we decided however that we weren't yet
impaired enough, and decided to drive down the hill to one of the disreputable liquor stores along Commonwealth Avenue that accepted your word
of honor as proof of age, and we hopped into the Volvo and blasted down the hill and down Commonwealth Avenue, severely impaired, and
wondered in a speculative way why people on the sidewalks all along Commonwealth seemed to be waving at us and holding their heads and
pointing and jumping wildly up and down, and Orin waving cheerfully back and holding his own head in a sort of friendly imitation, but it was not
until we got all the way down to the Commonwealth-Brighton Ave. split that the horrible realization hit us: Mrs. Incandenza often during summer
days kept the Incandenzas' beloved dog S. Johnson leashed to the back of her Volvo within reach of his water and Science Diet bowls, and Orin
and I had peeled out in the car without even thinking to check for whether S. Johnson was attached to it. I will not try to describe what we found
when we pulled into a parking lot and slunk to the rear of the car. Let's call it a nubbin. Let's say what we found was a leash and collar, and a
nubbin. According to the couple of witnesses who were able to speak, S. Johnson had made a valiant go of trying to keep up back there for at least
a couple blocks down Commonwealth, but at some point he either lost his footing or got his canine affairs in order and figured it was his day to
shuffle off, and gave up, and hit the pavement, after which the scene the witnesses described was unspeakable. There was fur and let's call it
material down the middle of the inside east-bound lane for five or six blocks. What we had left to take slowly back up the Academy's hill was a
leash, a collar with tags describing medication-allergies and food-sensitivities, and a nubbin of let's call it attached material.
   The point is that I defy you to imagine how it felt later that day to stand there with Orin in the HmH living room before the prone and piteously
weeping Mrs. Incandenza and listen to Orin try to construct a version of events in which he and I had sensed somehow that S. Johnson was dying
for a good brisk August walk and were walking him down Commonwealth,15 saying there we were walking good old S. Johnson demurely down the
sidewalk when a hit-and-run driver not only swerved up onto the sidewalk to run the dog down but then backed up and ran him over again and
backed up and ran him over again, and on and on, so more like a pulverize-and-run driver, while Orin and I had stood there too paralyzed with
horror and grief even to think of noticing the make and color of the car, much less the fiend's license plate. Mrs. Incan-denza on her knees (there's
something surreal about a very tall woman on her knees), weeping and pressing her hand to her collarbone but nodding in confirmation at every
syllable of Orin spinning this pathetic lie, O. holding up the leash and collar (and nubbin) like Exhibit A, with me next to him wiping my forehead
and wishing the immaculately polished and sterilized hardwood floor would swallow up the whole scene in toto.
   ... (7) Ms. Steeples, to my way of thinking, the word "abuse" is vacuous. Who can define "abuse"? The difficulty with really interesting cases of
abuse is that the ambiguity of the abuse becomes part of the abuse. Thanks over the decades to the energetic exercise of your own profession, Ms.
Steeley, we have all heard ACOAs and AlaTeens and ACONAs and ACOGs and WHINERS relate clear cases of different kinds of abuse: beatings,
diddlings, rapes, deprivations, domineerment, humiliation, captivity, torture, excessive criticism or even just utter disinterest. But at least the
victims of this sort of abuse can, when they have dredged it back up after childhood, confidently call it "abuse." There are, however, more
ambiguous cases. Harder to profile, one might say. What would you call a parent who is so neurasthenic and depressive that any opposition to his
parental will plunges him into the sort of psychotic depression where he does not leave his bed for days and just sits there in bed cleaning his
revolver, so that the child would be terrified of opposing his will and plunging him into a depression and maybe causing him to suicide? Would that
child qualify as "abused"? Or a father who is so engrossed by mathematics that he gets engrossed helping his child with his algebra homework and
ends up forgetting the child and doing it all himself so that the child gets an A in Fractions but never in fact learns fractions? Or even say a father
who is extremely handy around the house and can fix anything, and has the son help him, but gets so engrossed in his projects (the father) that he
never thinks to explain to the son how the projects actually get done, so that the son's "help" never advances past simply handing the father a
specified wrench or getting him lemonade or Phillips-head screws until the day the father is crushed into aspic in a freak accident on the Jamaica
Way and all opportunities for transgenerational instruction are forever lost, and the son never learns how to be a handy homeowner himself, and
when things malfunction around his own one-room home he has to hire contemptuous filthy-nailed men to come fix them, and feels terribly
inadequate (the son), not only because he is not handy but because this handiness seemed to him to have represented to his father everything
that was independent and manly and non-Disabled in an American male. Would you cry "Abuse!" if you were the unhandy son, looking back?
Worse, could you call it abuse without feeling that you were a pathetic self-indulgent piss-puddle, what with all the genuine cases of hair-raising
physical and emotional abuse diligently reported and analyzed daily by conscientious journalists (and profiled?)?
   I am not sure whether you could call this abuse, but when I was (long ago) abroad in the world of dry men, I saw parents, usually upscale and
educated and talented and functional and white, patient and loving and supportive and concerned and involved in their children's lives, profligate
with compliments and diplomatic with constructive criticism, loquacious in their pronouncements of unconditional love for and approval of their
children, conforming to every last jot/tittle in any conceivable definition of a good parent, I saw parent after unimpeachable parent who raised kids
who were (a) emotionally retarded or (b) lethally self-indulgent or (c) chronically depressed or (d) bor- derline psychotic or (e) consumed with
narcissistic self-loathing or (f) neurotically driven/addicted or (g) variously psychosomatically Disabled or (h) some conjunctive permutation of (a) ...
(g) Now, Orin had never once walked S. Johnson. Orin was not even all that keen on S. Johnson, because the dog was always trying to mate with
his left leg. And anyway, S. Johnson was very much Mrs. Incandenza's dog, and was normally exercised only by Mrs. Incandenza, and at rigidly
specific times of day.
    .
    Why is this. Why do many parents who seem relentlessly bent on producing children who feel they are good persons deserving of love produce
children who grow to feel they are hideous persons not deserving of love who just happen to have lucked into having parents so marvelous that
the parents love them even though they are hideous?
    Is it a sign of abuse if a mother produces a child who believes not that he is innately beautiful and lovable and deserving of magnificent maternal
treatment but somehow that he is a hideous unlovable child who has somehow lucked in to having a really magnificent mother? Probably not.
    But could such a mother then really be all that magnificent, if that's the child's view of himself?
    I am not speaking about my own mother, who was decapitated by a plummeting rotorblade long before she could have much effect one way or
the other on my older brother and innocent younger sister and me.
    I think, Mrs. Starkly, that I am speaking of Mrs. Avril M.-T. Incandenza, although the woman is so multileveled and indictment-proof that it is
difficult to feel comfortable with any sort of univocal accusation of anything. Something just was not right, is the only way to put it. Something
creepy, even on the culturally stellar surface. For instance, after Orin had pretty clearly killed her beloved dog S. Johnson in a truly awful if acci-
dental way, and then had tried to evade responsibility for it with a lie that a parent far less intelligent than Avril could have seen right through, Mrs.
Inc's response was not only not conventionally abusive, but seemed almost too unconditionally loving and compassionate and selfless to possibly be
true. Her response to Orin's pathetic pulverize-and-run-driver lie was not to act credulous so much as to act as if the entire grotesque fiction had
never reached her ears. And her response to the dog's death itself was bizarrely furcated. On the one hand, she mourned S. Johnson's death very
deeply, took the leash and collar and canine nubbin tenderly and arranged lavish memorial and funeral arrangements, including a heartbreakingly
small cherrywood coffin, cried in audible private for weeks, etc. But the other half of her emotional energies went into being overly solicitous and
polite toward Orin, upping the daily compliment-and-reinforcement-dose, arranging for favorite foods at E.T.A. meals, having his favorite little
tennis appurtenances appear magically in his bed and locker with loving notes attached, basically making the thousands of little gestures by which
the technically stellar parent can make her child feel particularly valued0 -- all out of concern that Orin in no way think she resented him for S.
Johnson's death or blamed him or loved him less in any way because of the whole incident. Not only was there no punishment or even visible
pique, but the love-and-support-bombardment increased. And all this was coupled with elaborate machinations to keep the mourning and funeral
arrangements and moments of wistful dog-remembrance hidden from Orin, for fear that he might see that the Moms was hurt and so feel bad or
guilty, so that in his presence Mrs. Inc became even more cheerful and loquacious and witty and intimate and benign, even suggesting in oblique
ways that life was now somehow suddenly better without the dog, that some kind of unrecognized albatross had been somehow removed from her
neck, and so on and so forth.
    What does a trained analyst of our cultural profile's soft contours like yourself make of this, Mrs. Starksaddle? Is it mind-bogglingly considerate
and loving and supportive, or is there something . . . creepy about it? Maybe a more perspicuous question: Was the almost pathological generosity
with which Mrs. Inc responded to her son taking her car in an intoxicated condition and dragging her beloved dog to its grotesque death and then
trying to lie his way out of it, was this generosity for Orin's sake, or for Avril's own? Was it Orin's "self-esteem" she was safeguarding, or her own
vision of herself as a more stellar Moms than any human son could ever hope to feel he merits?
    When Orin does his impression of Avril -- which I doubt you or anyone else can get him to do anymore, though it was a party-stopper back in
our days at the Academy -- what he will do is assume an enormous warm and loving smile and move steadily toward you until he is in so close that
his face is spread up flat against your own face and c. Yes -- all right -- this may start to touch on it: not "valuable" but "valued."your breaths
mingle. If you can get to experience it -- the impression -- which will seem worse to you: the smothering proximity, or the unimpeachable warmth
and love with which it's effected?
    For some reason now I am thinking of the sort of philanthropist who seems humanly repellent not in spite of his charity but because of it: on
some level you can tell that he views the recipients of his charity not as persons so much as pieces of exercise equipment on which he can develop
and demonstrate his own virtue. What's creepy and repellent is that this sort of philanthropist clearly needs privation and suffering to continue,
since it is his own virtue he prizes, instead of the ends to which the virtue is ostensibly directed.
    Everything Orin's mother is about is always terribly well-ordered and multivalent. I suspect she was badly abused as a child. I have nothing
concrete to back this up.
But if, Ms. Bainbridge, you have yielded your own charms to Orin, and if Orin strikes you as a wonderfully gifted and giving lover -- which by
various accounts he is -- not just skilled and sensuous but magnificently generous, empathic, attentive, loving -- if it seems to you that he does,
truly, derive his own best pleasure from giving you pleasure, you might wish to reflect soberly on this vision of Orin imitating his dear Moms as
philanthropist: a person closing in, arms open wide, smiling.

