

132
     The word Group in AA Group is always capitalized because Boston AA places enormous emphasis on joining a Group and identifying yourself as
a member of this larger thing, the Group. Likewise caps in like Commitment, Giving It Away, and c.
_ Gately's little bedroom in the damp Ennet House basement is plastered all over every part of every wall that's dry enough to take tape with
cutout Scotch-taped photos of all sorts of variegated and esoteric celebrities past and present, which are varied as residents throw magazines into
the E.M.P.H.H. dumpsters and are frequently selected because the celebrities are somehow grotesque; it's a kind of compulsive habit held over
from Gately's fairly dysfunctional North Shore childhood, when he'd been a clipping and taping fiend.
    _ And if you're brand-new, as in like your first three days, and so on mandatory nonpunitive House Restriction -- like veiled Joelle van Dyne, who
entered the House just today, 11/8, Interdependence Day, after the E.R. physician at Brigham and Women's Hospital who last night had pumped
her full of Inderal3 and nitro had looked upon her unveiled face and been deeply affected, and had taken a special interest, a consequence of which
after Joelle regained consciousness and speech had involved placing a call to Pat Montesian, whose paralyzying alcoholic stroke the physician had
treated in this very same E.R. almost seven years before, and in whose case he'd also taken a special interest and had followed, such that he was
now a personal friend of the sober Pat M.'s and sat honorarily on Ennet House's Board of Directors, so that his call to Pat's home on Saturday night
had gotten Joelle into the House on the spot, as of Interdependence Day A.M.'S discharge from B&W, leap-frogging literally dozens of waiting-list
people and putting Joelle into Ennet House's intensive program of residential treatment literally before she even knew what was happening, which
in retrospect might have been lucky -- if you're this new you're actually not supposed ever to leave the Staffer's sight, though in practice this rule
gets suspended when you have to go to the ladies' room and the Staffer's male, or vice versa.
a. Propranolol hydrochloride, Wyeth-Ayerst, a beta-blocking antihypertensive.
_ A conviction common to all who Hang In with AA, after a while, and abstracted in the slogan 'My Best Thinking Got Me Here.'
_ Trade-name Fastin, ®SmithKline Beecham Inc., a low-level 'drine not unlike Tenu-ate, though w/ more associated tooth-grinding.
_ None of these are Don Gately's terms.
_ In e.g. Boston: join Group, get Active, get phone #s, get sponsor, audio-call sponsor daily, hit meetings daily, pray like fiend for release from
Disease, don't kid self that you can still buy rodneys in liquor stores or date your dealer's niece or think for a second you can still hang out in bars
playing darts and just drinking Millennial Fizzies or vanilla Yoo-Hoos, etc.
_ Volunteer Counselor Eugenio ('Gene') M. favors entomologic tropes and analogies, which is especially effective with brand-new residents fresh
from subjective safaris through the Kingdom of Bugs.
_ Don G.'s North Shore's vulgate signifier for trite/banal is: limp.
_ Likewise that his private term for blacks is niggers, which is unfortunately still all he knows.
_ The speaker doesn't actually use the terms thereon, most assuredly, or operant lim-bic system, though she really had, before, said chordate
phylum.
_ Sic.

