

256
     The occasional upscale parent could be seen exiting Comm.-Ad. and crossing behind the West Courts' south fence to the asphalt lot and what
were unmistakably parental autos, all remarkable for their textbook tire-pressure and bristles of cellular antennae and the absence of any little
dust-smiles on their rear or side windows. Charles Tavis had spent the morning interfacing with parents of those E.T.A. kids injured in I.-Day's Es-
chaton free-for-all. Lateral Alice Moore, for a treat, had been listening to Tavis and parents on her headphones, while typing, instead of her
collection of aerobic favorites. Struck and Pemulis had cruised by before lunch and blarneyed her into putting the exchanges on her intercom's
speaker for a couple minutes. You should hear C.T. enclosed with parents sometime. It was only some of the parents -- Todd Possalthwaite's dad
was on honeymoon in the Azores, and Otis P. Lord's mother had some inner-ear thing and the Lords couldn't fly. But Pemulis and Struck concurred
that everyone with any kind of administration in his blood should hear E.T.A.'s Headmaster with parents and a placative mission, a master charmer
past all social gauge, a Houdini with the manacles of fact, the interfaces like fluidless seductions -- Pemulis said the man's missed a genuine calling
in sales -- everyone practically wanting to smoke a cigarette afterward, the parents leave weeping, pumping Tavis's hands -- one parent per hand
-- practically begging him to accept both their thanks and their apologies for daring to even possibly think, even for a moment. Then, supporting
each other, making their way over Lateral Alice's third rail and past the beaming extremely polite lads by her desk and out through the pressurized
glass lobby doors and down off the white-pillared neo-Georgian porch and past courts and bleachers and into their well-maintained autos and out
the portcullis and very slowly down the hill's brick drive before they even recall they'd forgotten to pop in on their injured kid, sign his cast, feel his
forehead, say Hey.

