

110
        Q.v. here later in the same day, 11/7, as Hal Incandenza sits on the edge of his unmade bed, undressed, with the good right leg curled under
him and the bad ankle soaking in a janitor-pail of dissolved Epsom salts, looking through one of Mario's old Hush Puppy shoeboxes of letters and
snapshots. Saturdays involve classes and drills and P.M. matches but no conditioning run or weight circuits. Afternoon's odd mismatched challenge
matches held on staff-squeegeed Center Courts under a steady metal sunless sky. The air still damp after lunchtime's rain. Hal's own odd match
was truncated when C-squadder Hugh Pemberton took a ball in the eye up at net and began wandering the service box in wobbled circles. Hal
skipped a quick trip down to the Pump Room and got to shower nearly solo in the main locker room. Tomorrow's Interdependence Day communal
supper at E.T.A. is a big deal and includes each person's own specially selected hat, plus real dessert, and a post-prandial Mario-made film, and
sometimes a sing-along. Hal and Pemulis, Struck and Axford and Troeltsch and Schacht and sometimes Stice have their own special private day-
before-I.-Day-ritualistic-supper-out-and-trip-to-The-Unexamined-Life blowout-gala, since Sunday is a day of total mandatory R&R. The untruncated
matches are winding down out there, Hal can hear. The sun is coming out just in time to go down. The Comm.-Ad. pipes start to moan and sing
with crowded showering kids. Pale net-shadows are starting to elongate acutely across the sidelines of the courts' north sides. Mario is more or less
the Incandenza family archivist ex officio. Mario has been closeted with Disney Leith all day preparing things for Sunday's postprandial gala and
filmiest. The phone sits mute atop the answering-machine attachment on the telephone's power unit's console. Its antenna is retracted and it
simply sits there, exuding the vague contained menace of mute phones. The phone's ringer sort of twitters instead of ringing. The audio-only
comm.-system's power console is bolted to a receptacle on the side of Hal and Mario's TP, and its red power light blinks at the slow liquid rate of a
radio tower. The phone and answering machine are hand-me-downs from Orin's days at E.T.A., old models of transparent plastic, so you can see
everything's quad-colored pasta of wires and chips and tin disks. The only message when Hal got in was from Orin at I4l2h. Orin had said he'd just
called to ask whether by any chance Hal'd ever realized that all of Emily Dickinson -- as in the Belle of Amherst Emily Dickinson, the canonical
agoraphobic poet -- that every single one of Ms. Dickinson's canonical poems could by sung without loss or syllabic distortion to the tune of 'The
Yellow Rose (of Texas).' 'Because I could not stop for Death He kindly stopped for Me,' Orin had sung illustratively onto the recording. 'I hope the
Father in the skies Will lift his little Girl.' Actually more like sort of sung. There'd been professional-locker-room sounds in the background -- locker
doors banging, bass voices on tile and steel, personal stereos, hisses of antiperspirant and styling-spritz. The odd enclosed echo of locker rooms
everywhere, junior or pro. 'On my volcano grows the Grass A meditative spot/ and so on. The fleshy pop of a professionally snapped towel on adult
skin. A black man's falsetto laughter. Orin's recorded voice said he'd just grabbed an odd free second to inquire what Hal's machine might make of
this fact.
   Hal spits Kodiak tobacco juice into an old rocket-emblazoned NASA glass on the bedside table, idly and for no special reason riffling through
densely packed letters tri-folded and packed upright, a kind of Rolodex of different mementos and postal correspondence Mario's rescued from
wastebaskets and recycling bins and dumpsters and quietly saved in shoeboxes. Mario has no problem with Hal perusing his closet's stuff. Mario's
closet has a canvas strap instead of a knob. Ideally there would also be a bucket of very cold water, and Hal would move the bad ankle from one
bucket to the other and back again. A whistle sounds from down near the girls' West Courts. Someone little in the hall outside the closed door
shouts 'Guess again!' to someone else farther down the hall. None of the Hush Puppy box's snail-mail letters are to or from Mario. Mario's bed is
loosely, unanally made. Hal's bed is unmade. Hal and Mario's mother had done her undergraduate Honors work at McGill on the use of hyphens,
dashes, and colons in E. Dickinson. The Epsom-water whitens his calluses. Unlaundered bedding swims around him. The phone twitters. Ample
make this bed, or Ample make this bed. The phone twitters again.
   A MOVING EXAMPLE OF THE SORTS OF PHYSICAL-POST MAIL MRS. AVRIL INCANDENZA HAS SENT HER ELDEST CHILD ORIN SINCE the FELO
DE SE OF DR. J. O. INCANDENZA, THE SORT OF CHIRPILY
   QUOTIDIAN MAIL THAT --HERE'S THE MOVING PART --SEEMS to IMPLY A CONTEXT OF REGULAR INTER-PARTY COMMUNICATION, STILL
   20 June Y.W.-Q.M.D.
   Dear Filbert,3
   It's been a quiet week here on Mount Gawdforsakenb -- today is perishing hot, windless, quiet as a tomb, lush and pretty. Every floral unit on
the grounds has its pistil aprick and petals atremble in a truly shameless fashion, for the bees are about. The whole hill hums drowsily. Yesterday,
your Uncle Charles was accosted on the north path by a bumblebee that he alleges was so enormous it sounded like a tuba, and he dispatched Mr.
Harde and the grounds crew with skeet rifles and orders to ' . . .bring the Sikorski-sized bugger down.' I shall spare you details of the subsequent
misadventures of the grounds crew, two of whom are now recovering satisfactorily.
   The paucity of decibels here is due in part to all six A-teams' departure yesterday for Milan, with Gerhardt, Aubrey, Carolyn, and Urquhart at the
pedagogical tiller. It seems not so many moons ago that we were seeing you, Marlon, Ross, and the rest off on the European clay junket. I recall
pressing the maternal beak to the terminal window's glass, trying to make my Filbert out somewhere behind the airplane's impossible little bullet-
hole windows. I cried like a fool every time, as of course I did all over again yesterday, embarrassing everyone but Mario, who also cried.
   As for me, I've swotted and wakked all morning, cranking up your Uncle Charles's videophone and trying to cajole the editors of various
supermarket trade publications to run M.G.M.'sc latest plea for amending Less to Fewer'm those !*#!*# Express Check-Out lanes. One old editorial
codger said that he'd dearly love to help me out but that his newsletter was devoted exclusively to issues of promotional display. When I suggested
that a little comic relief in the form of the L------>F bulletin might not be amiss, he chortled. Chortling is good. We like chortling. However, I did
manage to twist the arms (harder to do telephonically than one might think) of Produce Weekly, Star Market s Quarterly Register, and
PriceChopper's Shelf and Cart, so the wheels of adjectival justice continue, albeit creakily, to turn.
   The very last gobbet of Academy news is that your Uncle Charles had his blood cholesterol tested late last week. Though the verdict rendered
was no worse than a rather unperspicuous "Normal to Upper-normal" (sic), the penultimate modifier has caused, as you might anticipate, much
pacing and high-decibel whingeing, as well as vows of eternal xerophagy from here on out. Your Uncle Charles has already, for some months now,
made a practice of swallowing three teaspoons of fish-liver oil just before he hurls the administrative skeleton bedward for the night. Your brothers
have taken to trekking over on slow nights to watch him swallow his oil, purely out of enthusiasm for the faces Charles makes as the stuff goes
gulletward. I e-ordered the poor man a low-lipid, artery-friendly cookbook as a sort of Whatthehell present the day the results came in, and your
Uncle Charles has already pored over the thing and marked several yummers. We're to have a swot at cabbage patties tonight, fast-laners that we
are. I do suppose the poor man will find a way to ladle rice brand into his toothpaste before this spasm of angst subsides. Bless his heart -- as it
were!
   My, this machine does let one maunder on. I'd best get back to harrying grocers. One of this fall's matriculates6 is the son of a man who's
apparently become an immensely wealthy Telegrocerf in the Upper Midwest, so perhaps the Express Lane-Solecism issue will simply disappear in
these here parts as well.
   It goes without saying that you are of course wearing your halo and mouth-guard at all appropriate times and eating at least one green, leafy
vegetable per day.
   Oh -- 'twas wonderful to hear about the arbitration and contract. Mr. deLint read a detailed account and told us all about it. Proud, as ever, to
know you.
   Miss You and Love You Lots, and c.

  AND AN EXAMPLE OF THE INVARIANT RESPONSE THESE PIECES OF MAIL ELICIT
  Ms. Incandenza Dear__________________
  Due to the large number of mail the New Orleans Saints® are so fortunate enough to receive from all across the 2nd InterLace Grid8, we
regrettably say
  ORTKTINCANDENZA #71__________can not answer your letter in person, however, on behalf of the New Orleans Saints"________________
______has asked me to say
  Thank-You for your message of support, and best wishes.
  Inclosed, please accept a special, color 20 X 25 centimeter personally autographed
    action photo of                ORIN INCANDENZA_______________#71___________________} as
    our way of saying Thank-You and how important you're letter has been to us. Cordjally, Jethro Bodine
    Assistant Mailroom Technician
    And c.
    'Mmyellow.'
    'Presenting Speedy Seduction Strategy Number 7.'
    'Orin. Happy Inter-Day Eve. E Unibus Pluram and so on. Still dodging the disabled?'
    'A proviso up-front, Hallie: Number 7 never misses.'
    'And not every Dickinson poem is singable to 'Yellow Rose,' O. Sorry to disappoint you. For instance like "Ample make this bed -- Make this bed
with awe" isn't even iambic, much less quatrameter/trimeter.'
    'Just a theory. Just tossing it out for the machine's consideration.'
    'A practice to be encouraged. This particular theory's unfortunately a dink. Plus I don't think you quite meant proviso.'`
    'Number 7 remains a no-miss proposal, though. Picture this. Obtain a ring. As in a wedding band. So you present yourself to the Subject as
visibly married.'
    'You know I hate these Strategy calls.'
    'Also of course works if you really do happen to be married. In which case you've got a ring already.'
    Tm sitting here soaking my ankle, O.'
    'The object being, to present yourself to the Subject as married, as in happily married, and you engage her in a conversation in which you make
a big deal of how head-over-heels in love you are with your wife, how wonderful she is, the wife, how blue and clean the pilot-light of passion still
burns in the central heating system of your love for her, your wife, even after all these several years you've been hitched.'
    Tm sitting here looking through an old box of letters to kill just a very few minutes before a bunch of us climb in the tow truck for Pemulis's
annual I.-Day-Eve town-painting.'
    'But as you're saying all this to the Subject, your manner is nevertheless indicating that you're attracted to her.'
    'It's poignant somehow that you always use the word Subject when you mean the exact obverse.'
    'But it's not like flirtatious or salivious, your manner. More like just strongly involuntarily attracted. Almost as if hypnotized against your will. Your
manner can indicate this just by following the Subject's conversational movements and changes of posture or facial expression in that sort of
vacant intense way a hungry person watches somebody eating. Following the movements of the fork as if memerized. With, of course now, the
occasional flicker of pain and conflict in your eyes, at the fact that here you are involuntarily memerized by somebody other than your serapic wife,
which the point --'
    'Time. Yo. I think you mean seraphic. I also think you meant lascivious and mesmerized.'
    'You know what your problem is, Hallie?'
    'I have just one problem?'
    'But hang on until you see that 7's worth not making me digress away from, though. Because the point being to get across how it's an incredible
tribute to the Subject's overwhelming female charms that you can even really even see her, the Subject, since you're so in love with your wife you
barely even see most women as even female anymore, much less be involuntarily attracted to the Subject, much less have maybe the thought of
infidelity skitter no matter how involuntarily across your devoted mind. And it's not like you'll have to volunteer any of this directly. The Subject'll
draw the observations on her own. That's the point of the conflicted flickers in your memerized eyes, or at the most an involuntary tortured groan,
a quick bite of the knuckle of the forefinger.'
    'A heel of the hand to the forehead or something like that.'
    'Get your manner down just conflicted-looking enough and the Subject herself'll actually start drawing you out on this fact, the involuntary
attraction that's so painful to you and so flattering and tributary to her.'
    'So wait. This is like a conversation where you're affecting all this flickering and groaning? Like you mean a cocktail-party-small-talk
conversation? Or do you just brandish your fake ring at some girl at a bus stop and start a tortured tribute to your seraphic wife?'
    'It takes place anywhere. Venue-adjustable. 7's portable and never-miss. The point is to maneuver the issue of your devoted attracted conflicted
pain to the point where you can appear to almost sort of break down and can ask the Subject in all tortured sincerity if she thinks your involuntarily
finding her so visibly female and attractive makes you a bad husband. Display vulnerability and ask her to evaluate the like integrity of your heart.
Seem desperate. Your whole married self-concept shaken. Practically beg the Subject to reassure you you're not a bad-hearted man. Plead with the
Subject to say what she thinks it might be about her charms that could drive your serapic wife even momentarily from your heart. You present the
attraction you feel for the Subject as this involuntary identity-threatening soul-searing-type crisis you just desperately need her help with, the
Subject's, person to person.'
    'Sounds very moving.'
    'And if it so happens you really are married, the additional advantage to 7's pitch is that you and the Subject both, however briefly, get to believe
it. The pitch. The involuntary passionate doomed knight-errant-type pitch.'
    'And of course, O., the Subject just happens to be married herself, often with small children, putting her directly in your crosshairs.'
    'A matter of what's the word personal preference and taste that doesn't impact 7's surefire no-miss quality one way or the other. It's the doomed
involuntary conflicted good-man's-downfall-type quality that no Subject can seemingly resist.'
    'Ainsi, then.'
    'Well O. the thing's sick. It's even sicker than 4. Was it 4? The one you said that Loach inspired, where you'd supposedly just that very day
dropped out of Jesuit seminary after umpteen years of disciplined celibacy because of carno-spiritual yearnings you hadn't even been quite in touch
with as carno-spiritual in nature until you just now this very moment laid eyes on the Subject? With the breviary and rented collar?'
    'That was 4, yes. 4's pretty much of a gynecopia also, but within a kind of narrower demographic psychological range of potential Subjects.
Notice I never said 4 was no-miss.'
    'Well you must be a very proud young man. This is even sicker. The fake ring and fictional spouse. It's like you're inventing somebody you love
just to seduce somebody else into helping you betray her. What's it like. It's like suborning somebody into helping you desecrate a tomb they don't
know is empty.'
    'This is what I get for passing down priceless fruits of hard experience to somebody who still thinks it's exciting to shave.'
    'I ought to go. I have a blackhead I have to see to.'
    'You haven't asked why I called right back. Why I'm calling during high-toll hours.'
    'Plus I feel some kind of toothache starting, and it's the weekend, and I want to see Schacht before Mrs. Clarke's confectionery day in the sun
tomorrow. Plus I'm naked.'
    'I'm surprised you were even there. In person. I was expecting the Disembodied Voice and asking you to call back ASAP on this. What is it out
there, 1600? Why aren't you outside hard at play? Don't tell me Schtitt started cancelling P.M.'S for I.-Day Eve.'
    'I tagged this kid Pemberton in the eye up at net. It was inadvertent. We were only four games in. He hit a big soft fluffy goose of an approach
and I was trying to handcuff him. I hit it at him only to handcuff him. He never even got his stick up. Right in the left socket. It made a sound like a
champagne cork. A prorector named Corbett Thorp said he thought Pemberton might have detached a retina. Something sure seemed detached.
He was walking around in diminishing circles like he'd been hit with a mallet.'
    'You sound really, like, remorse-riddled.'
    'Kitchens arid heat, O. I've taken my share of balls in various spots. And whence bizarre metric theories about Emily Dickinson all of a sudden, by
the way? And what's up with the lurking figures with wheelchairs?'
   'You're a Top-Ten junior stickman suddenly now this year, Hallie, what's Schtitt doing giving you a cloth mouse like Hugh Pemberton to bat
around anyway?'
   'You remember him?'
   'Who could forget a kid that looks like he's curtsying when he serves? With the white visor and the little amber glasses? That kid's been hanging
from the bottom of the ladder by his nails since he was nine.'
   'It's been carnage all week. Schtitt's playing the C teams against the A's. It's for the C's development, Donni said. Also because today word's
down from the tower some of the staff thought some of the A's looked tentative against Port Wash.'
   'They despise tentativity.'
   'I think they want us just short of cocky for the Fundraiser and then the WhataBurger, where Wayne's got a chance to knock this Veach kid off
the pole.'
   'Let's not forget you though either, H. I can get down for at least the WhataBurger semis if you get there, if you want incentive.'
   'As in in person, O.?'
   'Word is you're worth watching now.'
   'Word?'
   'I keep my ear to the cement, Hallie.'
   'At least for very short Subjects, I'd imagine.'
   'We take off for the Patriots that Friday, what is that like the 27th or -8th, but it's a Saturday afternoon game. I can be down there by midday
Sunday if you're still in the thick.'
   'You'll probably need to wear some sort of sign around your neck so I know it's you.'
   'So then you'll be up here just as we're down there, oddly, playing.'
   'It goes without saying you'd give me the advance skinny if anybody I didn't want to see was by any chance flying down there with you guys.'
   'The C versus A thing's been more like grotesque than confidence-building. Guys are taking out stress in kind of twisted ways. Struck beat
Gloeckner in 40 minutes and then made a show of revealing he'd had 3-kilo ankle-weights on under his socks. Wayne made van Slack cry right
there in front of everybody.'
   'Word is Wayne has exactly one gear.'
   'Then Thursday Coyle had his left wrist tied to his right ankle and was still beating this new kid Stockhausen until Schtitt sent Tex Watson down
to tell him to knock it off.'
   'So but the reason I'm really calling, Hallie.'
   'And you're being evasive about the dread about the disabled. The like rolling stalkers.'
   'I haven't seen wheel one in days. I'm thinking possibly this was a kind of very shy sort of fan club of people without legs that look up to me --'
   'Grotesque entendre, O.'
   '-- as, like, the ultimate leg. They use different ruses to follow me around and never come close or say anything because they're really shy
because they don't have legs. So now my mind's resting easier.'
   'Now if the roach- and spiders-at-heights fears'd subside you could really hold the head high.'
   'So the reason I'm calling.'
   'I already said I'd let you know when and if. No sightings of any journalists. Your Moment profiler.'
   'I'm actually glad I got you in person. I was going to ask you to call me ASAP.'
   Tm pleased to call you a sap whenever you like, O.'
   'That's below you. And I can hear you still chewing that grisly shit. That shit's going to make your lower jaw fall right off. I've seen it happen
down here, believe me. And you're wondering why the tooth problems all the time suddenly.'
   'Snuff's saliva-stimulating. It's actually oral-hygiene-enhancing, when you factor in all the extra brushing. The caries are Himself's legacy. You
know that. The Himself whose root canals put Dr. Zegarelli's kids through Andover.'
   'This basically nonsocial call, H., is because I need your feedback on some issues from these half-dozen or so very complex and far-ranging and
in-depth conversations I had with a certain Subject.'
   'Not the mobile-home person, surely.'
   'Whole different ballpark of Subject. The Dickinson theory I have to admit came from these conversations.'
   'Sounds like one deep lady.'
   'Whole levels and dimensions to this one. We've had a whole series of very intense verbal interchanges. Transcendentalist poetics was just one
of the in-depth issues ranged over. This subject keeps me on the cerebral toes.'
   'Dickinson's about as Transcendentalist as Poe. Your Subject's 0 for 2.'
   'This is all off to the side of the call. I told this Subject I'd consider certain issues very carefully before I really responded.'
   'Which meant you'd consider what she wanted to hear and how to ladle it on until she begs you to have intercourse with her.'
   'I hence need considered-sounding responses to two basic questions.'
   'Why this sick thing of making me complicit in these Strategic pursuits when you know I think they're troubled and sick? It's like asking
somebody to help you culture anthrax or something.'
   'Just two questions is all.'
   'Now I'm beginning almost to be able to feel my pulse in the tooth, it feels like the infection's gathering force so fast.'
   'Firstly, what does the following word I can't find in the dictionary mean: s-a-m-i-z-d-a-t.'
   'Samizdat. Russian compound noun. Soviet twentieth-century idiom. Sam -- stem: "self"; izdat -- undeclined verb: "to publish." I think the literal
denotation's technically archaic: the sub-rosa dissemination of politically charged materials that were banned when the Eschaton-era Kremlin was
going around banning things. Connotatively, the generic meaning now is any sort of politically underground or beyond-the-pale press or the stuff
published thereby. There's no real samizdat in the U.S. per se, First Amendment-wise, I don't think. I suppose ultra-radical Québecois and Albertan
stuff could be considered O.N.A.N.ite samizdat.'
   Tow.'
   'Not just Séparatisteur pamphlets, now. It'd have to be more incendiary. Materials advocating violence, destruction of property, disruption of
Grids, anti-O.N.A.N. terrorism and so on. I don't think O.N.A.N.'s got technical bans per se, I don't think, but Poutrincourt said the R.C.M.P.s are
empowered to impound literature and even desktop-publishing and InterLink hardware et cetera without any sort of warrant.'
   'R.C.M.P.'
   'Mounties, O.'
   'The Nelson Eddy guys in silly hats and equestrian jaspers.'
   'Close enough. Next question.'
   'So you'd have no idea why The Mad Stork's name would come up in connection with somebody saying samizdat.'
   'This is the second question?'
   'Call it l(a).'
   'Not in any strict sense of the term. I guess I could see some Séparatisteurs trying to read The ONANtiad or Brick as anti-Reconfiguration films.
Maybe stuff like Poultry in Motion. A lot of Himself's stuff was self-distributed, too. And Immanent Domain's allegedly on one level an allegory about
the Concavity, though that overlooks that Gentle wasn't even President when the thing came out. But you can tell your Subject that Himself's work
was all very self-consciously American. His interest in politics was subordinate to form. Always. And none of it's banned. Whatever's still on the
InterLace back-menus is inter-Grid: you can order The ONANtiad in Manitoba, Vera Cruz, anywhere.'
   'Speaking of Quebec Separatism, interestingly.'
   'Why do I get a sinking feeling this is going to be l(a)-point-one or something. Maybe I could call you back tomorrow and we could chat on and
on. I'm going to be here reading for Boards till the Eschaton at 1400. Holiday tolls are low.'
   'It's my nickel, here.'
   'Or maybe you could simply call the person who's really the person to chat with about all issues Canadian, O.'
   'Droll.'
   'Moving right along to question 2, then -- my Epsom salts are getting cold.'
   'The big one is what you'd have to say if some tough-minded and spectacular Subject asked you what you have to say about the way every Nuck
Séparatisteur up there, from the Bloc Québecois and Fils de Montcalm all the way out to the really bug-eyed radical fringe-type sects and terroristic
cells --'
   'I'm going to have to object to the word Nuck, O.'

    'Beg pardon. The issue being why the whole Québec-Séparatisteur collection up there dropped the original Quebec-independence objective like a
rock and switched seemingly overnight to putting everything into agitating against O.N.A.N. and the Reconfiguration and forcing the return of the
Concavity to our map.'
    'O., this is O.N.A.N.ite politics. I'd look my Subject right in the big blue eye and tell her straight-out that the field of nanomicroscopy is not yet
advanced enough to measure my interest in the intricacies of O.N.A.N.ite politics. Poutrincourt's class is disquieting enough. The whole thing's
unpleasant and dry and repetitive and mostly dull. Thevet has a kind of compelling romanto-historical yarn to spin, though, about --'
    Tm serious. You've had some background, at least. The only Nuck prorector we ever got taught ceramics.'
    'But you're the one with the Pleiades and the 5 on the French Achievement boards and the ability to trill your R's.'
    'That's Parisian. And now I don't even watch the sports summaries, much less the political stuff. Just try for just one second. This Subject raised
issues that were way out of my depth.'
    'That's not even coherent enough to be a mixed metaphor, O. Are you honestly telling me you want your depth increased? Or are you just
looking for some Cliff-Note summary so you can incorporate the impression of depth into some new panty-removal campaign? Are you going to tell
her you studied O.N.A.N.ite politics under the Jesuits?'
    'The whole thing was dicey. I had to tell the Subject that I had to think about it and ponder, that I always took time to ponder at depth before I
just dashed off an opinion.'
    'And don't tell me: this is your Moment profiler? Your Boswell in an E cup? Is this why she's en route? Was the whole familio-historical profile
story last week a dodge? Am I really just supposed to sit down with her and paint you now as a political-minded ex-seminarian who's married to
someone only some sort of heroically proportioned goddess could tempt you to betray? Because I'll tell you right now that Schtitt's not going to let
any of us here talk to anybody from some glossy rag like Moment without him or deLint sitting right there with us. Gone are the days of Himself not
caring how many who's-the-next-Venus-Williams-hype journalists haunt the grounds, man. Schtitt's now calling the shots on who talks to whom.
DeLint has a whole scathing appendix to the Admissions Manual about junior development and toxic hype.'
    'Helen'll be able to get in.'
    'Schtitt's not going to let me hype your political acuity or pseudo-wife or anything else. He's got C.T. seeing this place as a sort of prophylactic
against commercial attention. He thinks junior commercial attention's deforming. The Manual now invites us to see ourselves as in utero and hype
as thalidomide. Schtitt'll let her in and stick her in with C.T. and let C.T. filibuster her till she throws herself out the window like that journalist from
Condé Nast last fall.'
    'Forget the profile. Speak to her or don't. This is personal.'
    'Meaning you've discovered she has small children and maybe a marriage you can deform.'
    'I'm ignoring all this. Helen's a different sort of Subject. I've discovered levels and dimensions to Helen that have nothing to do with profiles.'
    'Meaning she's a tough nut. Meaning you've set your crosshairs and she hasn't succumbed. And she knows you're not married and not a
tormented Jesuit. She's Strategy-resistant because she knows too much to fall for a persona.'
    'Co-ponder with me a second, if you're through. Stop me at any time. Jump right in at any time. On both the ultra-left and -right, the brass ring
up there has always been independent secession for Quebec, historically, no? Am I off? The Fronte Liberation and so on? The Fils de Montcalm. Or
is it maybe du? Are they the ones in Spandex and pancake makeup? The giant pies dropped on Ottawa after the third Meech Lake Accord?'
    'Parizeau et all and so on. Feel free to stop me or jump in. It all'd been about getting Quebec out of Canada, right? The Meech Lake and
Charlottetown revolts. The Crétien assassination. "Notre Rai Pays." Terrorists in plaid flannel. French Canada for the Fran-cophonic. Acadian
Zionism. "La Québecois Toujours." "On ne parle d'Anglais ici." `
    'With all the terrorism especially directed at Ottawa, pressure on Ottawa and Canada. "Permettez Nous Partir, Permettez Nous Être." Or we blow
up the Frontenac. Or we irradiate Winnipeg. Or we put a railroad-spike through Crétien's eye. This is not exactly deep-depth, O.'
    'Yes and then but suddenly everything changes when Ottawa, under duress or no, puts itself under the surgically sterile like thumb of O.N.A.N.,
with the advent of O.N.A.N., Gentle, quote unquote Experialism.'
    'You don't sound like you need any input from me on all this, O.'
    'But so but then in immediate unison all the various different Separatist groups drop secession and independence like rocks and all transfer their
insurgent resentment to O.N.A.N. and the U.S., and now insurge against O.N.A.N. on behalf of the same Canada they'd spent decades treating like
the enemy. Does this seem a little bit odd?'
    t         5
    'Doesn't this seem a little odd, Hallie?'
    'I'm really the wrong blood-relative to ask about the intricacies of the Canadian radical mind, O. We have a blood-relative who's got dual
citizenship, if you recall. Who I'm sure'd be overjoyed to ponder Separatist ideological flux with you all you want and then some. I'm sure. Once her
jaw recovered from being unhinged by joy that you actually called.'
    'I'm slapping not one but both knees at the dro--'
    ' 'd you know she's never once asked me whether Booboo and I hear from you? Not once. A sort of appalled pride. She's ashamed of even
hurting over it, some --'
    'Kidding all off to the side, I'm serious about this. The oddness of it. You know I respect your frontal lobes, Hallie. I'm asking for depth, not any
kind of expertise.'
    'You just ignored the meat of everything I just said. You're like an old person about this. With an old person's weird selective hearing.'
    'I'm going to let this whole pot-insulting-the-kettle on selective awareness of things just slide right on by. As a gesture that this is a serious call.
Why they all seemingly with one mind switched objectives.'
    'And acting on behalf of the whole of Canada, Quebec, suddenly, is what you want explained. Or do you simply want it confirmed as odd?'
    'The Subject cited polls from when they were still bothering to take polls up there that said like upwards of four-fifths of all Canadians wanted
out of O.N.A.N. and hoped President Gentle had a ghastly accident in his UV-booth, et cetera.'
    'So the second and final question concerns this shift from anti-Canadian Québecer nationalism to anti-O.N.A.N. Canadian nationalism.'
    'What I was thinking is is this maybe a textbook case of Johnny-Gentle-type-find-an-enemy-for-a-divided-nation-to-come-together-by-blaming-
and-hating theory in action? Is this somehow Quebec like circling its wagons with Alberta and all the other provinces in the face of a common
enemy?'
        '...'
   'Hal?'
   'You could always point out to the profiler that there's a nice little irony to Gentle's strategy ending up bringing Canada together at our expense,
when it was pretty obviously meant to bring us together at Canada's expense.'
   'But you sound like you think the more deeply pondered response would be something else.'
   'All I know is some very basic schoolboy history from Poutrincourt's class. And from the advantage of occasional contact with the Moms.'
   'Hit me.'
   'The historical record indicates pretty clearly that the one and only nationalism in the Québecois soul is Québecois nationalism. It's been "Nous v.
La Plupart Toujours," and the more so the farther out on the fringes you get. I can't see the Séparatisteurs considering Quebec a true part of
Canada any more than Lesotho saw itself as part of SOUTHAF. Poutrincourt keeps thumping the fact that there's no valid comparison between
Quebec and our own antebellum South. Why do you think Meech Lake IIIh failed? It's because at root they've never seen themselves as anything
other than hostages of Ottawa and the Anglophone provinces. Even moderate Séparatisteurs like Parizeau spoke of the final surrender on the Plains
of Abraham as a kind of forced property-transfer, the whole original war1 as one in which French-Canadians weren't the losers so much as the
spoils. Booty.'
   'This all checks with the Subject's take.'
   'The impression I get is that Quebec's hatred of anglophone Canada transcends anything they could work up against O.N.A.N. Just mention 1759
and the Moms's lips disappear. Pemulis and Axford keep coming early and putting a big gothic 1759 on the blackboard before GÔcMJ just to watch
the Moms's lips disappear when she comes in and sees it.'
   'My sense is the Subject concurs on the hatred-assessment. They want plain out, always have. Health-care and NAFTA be damned. That's why
they sabotaged all three Meech Lake Accords, she says. She seems to imply the anti-O.N.A.N. thing is some sort of anomalous dodge or
something.'
   'I've got to confess a sort of curiosity now about this profiler you just last week were preparing to fend off about Himself. Not to mention
comparing her to defensive linemen. Rubensian was never your type, I didn't think.'
        '...'
   'Plus any Subject you're bothering about even giving the impression of depth to. This is more work than your type of Subject tends to demand,
usually, isn't it?'
  '...'
   'This is something else that isn't you. You've never exactly been shy about discussing Subjects with me.'
   'It's complex. She's grown on me.'
   'It's this certain way she takes notes on your explanation of Coffin-Corner punts.'
   'It's complicated. There's a lot I'm not saying. She's got levels. I've discovered levels and dimensions to her I didn't know were originally there.'
   'Oh O., please don't let it just be you've just discovered she's married with little kids.
   That's not it by any chance is it? Please let it be something other than little kids.'
   '...'
   'Let it be something other than the hordes of other Subjects I've sat and listened to excruciatingly detailed sadistic blow-by-blow Strategic
accounts of. Orin "Home-wrecker" Incandenza, this is what the team calls you, in like jest? You sick pup.'
   'I'm a sick pup? I'm the sick one?'
   '... Wants to blame her, won't admit it, needs to, won't admit it, sweepingly blames the whole affair of Himself on her, won't interface with her or
worse even acknowledge her, resents even the fact she forgives things like you and Marlon Bain killing her dog --'
   '-- a hit-and-run-and-back-up-and-hit-again driver, I told you rep--'
   '-- pretends he gets the most retardate PR staffer he can make hold the crayon to send grotesque solecistic pseudo-impersonal replies to her
pathetic letters. Jethro Bodine, O.? Jethro Bodine?
   'A private chuckle. She'd never get it.'
   'Disowns her -- worse, sicker, tells himself he's convinced himself she doesn't even exist, as if she never existed, but by some coincidence has
this rapacious fetish for young married mothers he can strategize into betraying their spouses and maybe damaging their kids for all time, and has
this apparently even more rapacious compulsive need to call the blood-relative he hasn't even seen in four years and tell him all about every
Subject and Strategy, blow-by-blow, long distance, in nanomicroscopic detail. Let's stop and ponder this all for a moment, O., what say?'
   'I'm letting all this be just water off a duck's back. I can tell it's the tooth talking. I can remember the stress of the place. All I can say is that
trust me here: this Moment Subject is like strickenly dissimilar from what you're indicting. The levels and circumstances aren't the ones you're so
anxious to call rapacious. Is all I can say at this juncture.'
   'Why do I suspect it's simply that you tried to make the big X with her and she demurred and this simply piqued your interest? During my can't-
miss nail-interval you were saying how enormous interior linemen were making comments about her bottom being so huge and soft you could
whack it over and over with a car antenna and not hurt it.'
   'Hallie I never said any such fucking thing. You pulled that out of the air. And I'm sick?'
   'You said she was obese.'
   'I said she was a girl and a half in all directions. Which all of a sudden there was something that seemed cross-cultural about it: I had this
sudden flash of understanding how cultures can regard largeness as erotic. More of someone to love. Not to mention queerly and oddly intense and
alive and vibrant.'
   'And she declined a casual advance, and showed you pictures of her like enormous offspring, and you came to attention.'
   'With a heartbreakingly lovely face, too, Hal, all peachy and lissome, like big pretty girls get.'
   Tm going to have to keep her away from this kid Ortho Stice up here, because he really is a Rubensophile. After P.M.s when we sit around he'll
go on and on about enormous breasts and melon bellies and quivering laps until we're all grimacing and pinching our nose-bridges. And whatever
you meant was not lissome.'
   'The reserve QB who's next to me in these godawful pre-game costumed swoop-and-glides said something I liked. Helen passed him in the
locker room and he -- do you want to hear this?'
   'She was in the locker room?'
   'It's the law. The pros aren't a PR-gulag. He said she had a face that'd break your heart and then also break the heart of whoever like rushed
over to your aid as you pitched over sideways grabbing your chest.'
   'That is a pretty good one, O.'
   'But so far we concur on the basic oddness, it sounds like. If the radicals want Quebec loose from Canada still, and that's always been the
priceless pearl, why like dissipate themselves trying to wreak mayhem down here almost the precise moment Interdependence is declared? 'ce
pas?'
   'I'd rather just agree it's a stumper and then go dry my ankle and find a clean shirt and grab Schacht and hit him up for some Anbesol before we
hit the truck.'
   'Right? And do these different groups get along, amongst themselves, the different Separatist flanges?'
   'Not according to Poutrincourt they don't.'
   'So why then the united concerted switch from like Let Quebec Go or we stick knives in the eyes of Canadian VIPs and drop huge confections on
Rue Sherbrooke during St. Jean-Baptiste Day to all of a sudden Let Canada Go or we blow up ATHSCME towers and stretch mirrors across U.S.
highways and hang fleur-de-lis banners from U.S. monuments and disrupt InterLace pulses and skywrite Nuck obscenities over Buffalo and dicky
with waste-vehicle launchers so it rains moose-guano on New Haven and shoot O.N.A.N.ite V.I.P.s on U.S. soil and only barely get foiled from
injecting anaerobic toxins into jars of Planters peanuts?'
   'The New Haven Brown Rain thing was sort of a chortle, though, you have to admit.'
   'Chortles are good. We like chortles. But what's the political motivation for the about-face? Account for this for me. All it has to do is sound
soberly considered.'
   'Orin, I'm trying to reconcile your doubtless sincere seriousness about this with your choice of me as co-ponderer.'
   'All--'
   Tm a privileged white seventeen-year-old U.S. male. I'm a student at a tennis academy that sees itself as a prophylactic. I eat, sleep, evacuate,
highlight things with yellow markers, and hit balls. I lift things and swing things and run in huge outdoor circles. I am just about as apolitical as
someone can be. I am out of all loops but one, by design. I'm sitting here naked with my foot in a bucket. What exactly is it you hope to get from
me on this? I keep losing focus on whether you want a deep-sounding line of patter to facilitate Xing this fleshy Subject or have somehow been
seduced into believing it's really worth pondering the weedy thought-processes of fringe Canadians. Of fringe anybody. How consistent do the
Brazilian Nuevo Contras' objectives look? The Noie Störkraffs? Shining Path's? The Belgian CCCY? Pro-Life assault squads? The Ez-ed-Dean-el-
Qassan? P.E.T.A. fur-farm arsonists' objectives? Jesus, Gentle and the poor C.U.S.P.s?'k
   'Poor C.U.S.P.s?'
   'Why not just soberly shrug and invoke the term wacko and leave it at that? Why not tell her you're a radically simple and somewhat sick young
man who kicks balls really high in the air for a living?'
   'All I--'
   'Why not just say who cares? This stuff isn't about you and me. The person this stuff is about is the person you say you've erased from all RAM.
Why not tell the damn truth for once?'
   'Me tell the truth? Me lie?'
   'What, this ascapartic bathroom-mag journalist is going to give you like an SAT entrance-test on Francophone extremism? Like a gyno-entrance
exam? You have to place above a certain percentile to get her to let you X her on the floor of the nursery right next to the bassinet? Whom are you
trying to kid? Whom do you think this is really about? Can you be that sick that you can't even admit it over the fucking phone?'
   'Or what?'
   'I'm sorry, O. I apologize.'
   'Think nothing of it. I know you didn't mean it.'
   'I hate losing the temper.'
   'You don't sound good, Hallie. You sound ground down.'
   Hal grinds at his eye with a finger. 'These tooth-episodes make me feel like that wobbled shrieking figure in that Munch lithograph.'
   'That chew's going to eat right through your membranes. It's a vicious vice. I'm urging in all earnest. Ask that Schacht kid.'
   Michael Pemulis cracks Hal's door slowly and slowly pokes his head and one shoulder in, saying nothing. He has showered but is still flushed, and
his right eye gets wobbly in this certain way when two or three Tenuates are wearing off. He has his yachting cap, gold epaulets of fake naval
braid, and in one ear a piratical gold hoop that lights up in sync with his pulse. With the door just cracked and his head poked in he brings his other
arm in over from behind like it's not his arm, his hand in the shape of a claw just over his head, and makes as if the claw from behind is pulling him
back out into the hall. W/ an eye-rolling look of fake terror.
   Hal is hunched, examining his finger for eye-material. 'In all the excitement we've neglected the most obvious response, then, O. Your answer
for the exam, and then I can go dry the ankle.' He can hear PemuJis asking Petropolis Kahn and Stephan Wagenknecht something off down the
hall through the cracked door.
   'I think I already tried the obvious response on her, but hit me.'
   'Pemulis just made his first pass and left the door ajar. I'm sitting here nude in a draft through an open door neglecting the maybe deceptively
obvious fact that something like, what, three-quarters of the Concavity's northern border runs contiguous to Quebec.'
   'Exactamundo.'
   'So that so what if Ottawa didn't formally subjoin the Concavity to any particular province. Really big favor, I'm sure. Because the map speaks for
itself. Bits of western New Brunswick and a smidgeon of Ontario aside, the Concavity -- the physical fact and fallout of the Concavity -- it's
Quebec's problem. Something like 750 clicks of border along the Concavity, with attendant seepage, for Notre Rai Pays.'
   'Yes plus the brunt of the airborne wastes from the high-altitude ATHSCMEs, plus being the province that gets splatted when the E.W.D. vehicles
overshoot the Concavity. This is what í tried right off the bat on her.'
   'So what's the puzzle. Put yourself in Quebec's shoes. Once again they get the gooey end of the Canadian dipstick. It's mostly now western
Québecer kids the size of Volkswagens shlumpfing around with no skulls. It's Québecers with cloracne and tremors and olfactory hallucinations and
infants born with just one eye in the middle of their forehead. It's eastern Quebec that gets green sunsets and indigo rivers and grotesquely
asymmetrical snow-crystals and front lawns they have to beat back with a machete to get to their driveways. They get the feral-hamster incursions
and the Infant-depredations and the corrosive fogs.'
   'Although people aren't exactly flocking to New Brunswick or Lake Ontario either. And the coastal ATHSCMEs send the coastal phenols out over
Fundy, and supposedly the lobsters out there are like monsters in old Japanese films, and supposedly Nova Scotia glows, at night, in satellite
photos.'
   'Still and all, O., tell her proportionally speaking it's Quebec that's borne the brunt of what Canada had to take. The brunt again, to their way of
thinking, remember. Small wonder the fringe mentalities are violently anti-O.N.A.N. up there. There's got to be a real straw-and-camel feel to the
whole thing.'
   The door swings all the way open and clunks against the wall behind it. Michael Pemulis has pretended to kick it in. 'Good Lard preserve us he's
nekkid,' he says, coming in and closing the door to check behind it. Hal holds up a hand for him to wait a second.
   'Except here's the thing,' Orin says. Pemulis stands expectantly in an uncluttered patch of Hal's half of the floor and makes a show of looking at
his wrist as if there were a watch there. Hal nods at him and holds up one finger.
   'Except here's the thing,' Orin is saying. 'The issue she raises is is there really any sort of realistic hope of Quebec getting Gentle to get O.N.A.N.
to reverse the Reconfiguration. Take back the Concavity, shut down the fans, make us acknowledge the waste as fundamentally American waste.'
   'Well probably of course not.' Hal looks up at Pemulis and makes his own hand into a claw and makes clawing motions at the phone. Pemulis is
compulsively going around zipping and unzipping everything in the room with a zipper, a habit of his Hal loathes. 'But now she's got you falling
back into demanding realistic and consistent logic from fringe mentalities again.'
   'But Hallie just hang on. Canada as a whole couldn't oppose O.N.A.N. Wouldn't. Ottawa's so far in now they wouldn't say shit if they had three
times the mouthful they already have. Of shit I mean.'
   Pemulis is pointing vehemently out the west window at the parking lot where the tow truck is parked and making exaggerated Henry Vlll-like
rending and chewing motions. His eyes, under the waning influence of P.M. stimulants, do not get mirthful or glazed.
   They just get tiny and lightless and even closer together in his narrow face, like a second set of nostrils. The right eye's little wobble is out of
sync with the pulse of his earring.
   There's the sound of Orin switching phone-hands. 'So then I'll ask you what she seemed like she rhetorically asked: are the Separatists' and
fringe cells' pathetic little anti-O.N.A.N. campaigns and gestures down here basically just hopeless and pathetic?'
   'Does fish-shit drift slowly bottomward, O.? How could she see it as anything but, if she's as savvy as you say?' Hal removes his pruned white
foot from the janitor-bucket and dries it on a woppsed-up sheet. He points at a pair of underwear near Pemulis's Dock-sider. Pemulis picks the
briefs up off the floor with two fingers and tosses them to Hal with a pretend-shudder.
   'So simply largely symbolic at best, then?'
   Hal's lying back trying to get his legs into the briefs with one hand. 'Tell her after much chin-stroking simply yes, O. O., Pemulis is standing here
already in his hat pretending to clang a dinner bell. He's got big glittery ropes of drool swinging from his lower lip.' Pemulis is actually making a
complex system of motions indicating both the procedures for rolling a duBois and the lateness of the hour. For the past two years, Hal and
Pemulis and Struck and Troeltsch and sometimes B. Boone have made a little ritual of nipping out to the little hidden clearing behind West House's
parking lot's dumpsters and sharing an obscene cigar-sized duBois before the I.-Day-Eve expedition and supper out, while Schacht and sometimes
Ortho Stice sit inside the tow truck, faces green in the green glow of the truck's instruments, warming it up. Hal sits up and makes a waggling go-
on-ahead-on-down motion to Pemulis.
   'But you have the . .. Mr. Hope,' Pemulis stage-whispers.
   'One moment please.' Hal clamps a hand hard over the phone and covers phone and hand with two pillows and some bedding, and stage-
whispers 'Where's your part of the Mr. H. all of a sudden? Why do we have to roll a zeppelin out of my part of the Hope I bought retail from you
not three days ago?'
   The nystagmus makes the eye-rolling lurider. 'Extenuations. We can get it all sorted out right later. Nobody's going to like exploit you.'
   And then it's hard to extract the hand and phone. 'O., I'm going to have to book out of here in just about one second.'
   'Just how about this. Ponder this in advance for me and try and stay upright til you can call me back. This was the Subject's crux-type proposal.
You can call collect if you want.'
   'I don't have to respond,' Hal says.
   'Correct.'
   'I just listen and then break the connection.'
   'Calling me like tonight or tomorrow before lunch, collect if I.-Day's full-toll.'
   'I just sit here very briefly and then the conversation's over and we can go.' Hal's directing all this more at Pemulis, who's pacing and holding the
Constantine bust in his hands and examining it at close range, shaking his head.
   'All set? This is it. Are you set?'
   'So go already.'
   'Her poser goes roughly like this. If the Separatists' big object has always been to independently secede, and if they've got about a snowball's
chance of ever really getting O.N.A.N. de-Reconfigured, and if pretty much all Canadians despise Gentle and the transfer of the Concavity and the
whole Experialist merde sandwich, but especially the Concavity, the cartographic fact of a Concavity in our map and a new Convexity in theirs, that
the maps now say it's Canadian soil, this toxified like area: grant that all this is obviously right; then why don't the Separatists in Quebec use the
fact of the odiousness of the Concavity to go put their parliamentary wigs on and go to Ottawa to parliament and say to the rest of Canada like:
Look, let us secede, and we'll take the Concavity with us when we secede, it'll be our problem not yours, it'll go on the maps as Québecois and not
Canadian, it'll be our blot and our bone of dissension with O.N.A.N., and Canadian honor will be desmirched, and Canada's pathetic standing in
O.N.A.N. and the like world community of standings will be rehabilitated because of the ingenious way Ottawa's parliament will have re-
gerrymandered O.N.A.N.'s map without taking on the U.S. directly? Why not this? Why don't they go to Ottawa and say Cuibono all around and say
This way everybody wins? We get our own Notre Rai Pays, and you get the slap in the face of the Concavity off your map. The Subject posited why
the Nucks don't see the odiousness of the Concavity as maybe the best thing that ever happened to them in terms of Canada's persuadability into
letting Quebec go. She hit me with Why wouldn't your thinking militant Nucks use the Concavity as a bargaining chip for independence, why would
they want O.N.A.N. to take back the one thing odious enough to be a chip?'
   'Who's this you're talking to you can't call back?' Pemulis says loudly, pacing back and forth with little toy-soldier about-faces, his hoop flickering
like mad.
   Hal lowers the phone but doesn't cover it. 'It's Orin, wanting to know why Quebec and the F.L.Q. and so on haven't tried bargaining with the
Canadian administration, offering Quebec's cartographic adoption of the Concavity in exchange for Separation.' Hal cocks his head slightly. 'This
could be Poutrincourt's so-called Separation and return's real meaning, it occurs to me.'
   'Orin as in your brother, with the leg?'
   'He's all in a swivet about inter-O.N.A.N.ite politics.'
   Pemulis makes a megaphone of his hands. 'Tell him who gives a bright flaming fart! Tell him to go read a book! Tell him to access any one of a
dozen D-bases off of the Net! Tell him you're pretty sure he can afford it!' Pemulis's hands are slender and red-knuckled and his fingers long and
sort of falcate. 'Tell him you can hear the truck getting impatiently revved as on one of the very few totally free nights we ever get our friends get
ready to leave without you. Remind him how we have to eat on schedule up here or we get the wobbles. Tell him we read books and tirelessly
access D-bases and run our asses off all day here and need to eat instead of we don't just stand there and swing one leg up and down over and
over for seven-plus figures.'
   'Tell Penisless to go sit on something sharp,' Orin says.
   'O., he's right, I can feel that feeling of my body starting to feed on itself. You said I could think and call you back. I'll use your pager if you like.'
   Pemulis has used one foot to clear a path through laundry and diskettes and books and gear to the west window, where he's making broad
involved gestures with a person or persons outside down on the grounds whom the window's big sill keeps Hal from being able to see. Hal's
underwear is at a diagonal across his pelvis. Orin on the phone is saying:
   'Picture this and see what you think. Imagine this. The F.L.Q. and other various Separatist cells all suddenly divert their terror's energies away
from Canada and suddenly start mounting an insurgent campaign of U.S. and Mexican harassment. But the thing is they make a big deal of
terroristically insurging against O.N.A.N. on the behalf of all of Canada. They even find a way to bring the Albertan ultra-rightists in on it, plus other
provincial fringes, so it looks to O.N.A.N. like maybe all of Canada as a whole is in on the insurging.'
   'I don't have to picture it. It's what's going on. The C.P.C.P.1 makes incursions against Montana like clockwork. There was that horrific jamming
of InterLace pulses and substitution of porn-films for children's programming around Duluth in June traced to that psycho quintet in southwest
Ontario. The Interstates north of Saratoga are still supposed to be undrivable after sunset.'
   'Exactly.'
   'So some point for me to ponder needs to emerge really fast, here, Orin.'
   'The point is I was rhetorically invited by the Subject to entertain the picture of it all really being the Nucks. The pan-Canadian thing being a
dodge. The Separatists all somehow united and orchestrating the anti-O.N.A.N.ism. The rhetorical question becomes to imagine this and ask: Why
would they do this?'
   'We're wearing a groove in the same track again, O. It's because the Concavity impacts mainly Quebec.'
   'No, I mean she meant why would they make such a noise about insurging on behalf of all of Canada and go to such lengths to orchestrate the
appearance of pan-Canadian anti-O.N.A.N.ism.'
   'And then judging by precedent the Subject gave a hypothetical answer to her own question. Have you gotten to get a word in edgewise
throughout this series of interviews, O.?'
   'What if it's that the Nuck Separatists know totally well that if the O.N.A.N. administration sees Canada as a big enough roach in the ointment,
Gentle and Unspecified Services' boys in white can get together with Mexico's Vichified puppet-state and make things like really unpleasant indeed
for Ottawa. They could make Canada the sort of black scapegoat of all of O.N.A.N. There's little you can picture that might be worse than being the
one country in a three-country continental Anschluss that the other two countries are ganging up on and making things unpleasant for.'
   'Vichified Anschluss? This doesn't sound like any Orin I know. These are rabidly political catchwords. What kind of heartbreaking Rubensian
Moment-type fluff-journalist is this you're so determined to --?'
   'The unpleasantness is pretty easy to imagine a picture of. The E.W.D. vectors could easily be recalibrated further north, Gentle could tell them.
Our waste-resources are extensive. At the mildest, he could say, good-sized chunks of Canada could be Concav-itized.'
   'I have to go. Pemulis is slumped back against the wall with his hands over his stomach and is slumping all the way down the wall looking
wobbly and pale.'
   'Ponder the picture of the parliament's nails bitten all the way down to the ragged pink pulpy stuff as the Nucks orchestrate the terrorism so it
looks more and more like Canada versus O.N.A.N.'
   Hal's in slacks and one street-sock and one athletic sock and picking different shirts up off the floor, trying to smell a clean one. 'But this is all --'
   'Kyaaaa!' Pemulis vaults a corner of Hal's bed and tries to claw at the transparent phone's antenna like he's going to break it off. Hal turns to
protect the phone with a shoulder, whipping at Pemulis with a sweatshirt.
   Orin is saying 'What I'm asking is for you to ponder could it maybe end up that Quebec, after wreaking various mayhi down here and making it
look like it's all of Canada, the P.Q.s or somebody respectable gets wigged up and go to Ottawa and offers this deal: Parliament gets the P.M. and
the government to get the other provinces to let Quebec go, Separate, aller, partir -- and in return Québec'll step up the anti-O.N.A.N. harassment
and insurgency while dropping the pretense of other provinces being involved and all of Canada insurging and make it publicly clear that it's
Quebec and Quebec alone that's O.N.A.N.'s real nemesis. They tell Ottawa they'll offer the contiguousness of the Concavity as their reason and
send absolutely everything they've got in terms of terrorism at O.N.A.N. and Gentle, taking full credit each time. Offering themselves as the culprit
and de-Reconfiguration as the objective.'
   'So your multilevelled journalist's hypothesizing a kind of meta-extortion.' Hal can hear Pemulis's whistle-lipped breathing. 'Separation is still the
Québecer insurgents' real goal, and their anti-O.N.A.N. insurgency is not what it appears.' Hal's in the dark under the desk that the fold-out TP and
drives and phone console and modem are stacked on one corner of, surrounded by nests of wires, trying to find his other street-shoe. 'It's
supposedly just been a ruse to arouse O.N.A.N.'s ire at Canada so the Québecers can use the U.S. and Mexico as levers on Ottawa.'
   'Trying to engineer it so that Canada'll be more than happy to disassociate from them,'

   Orin says. 'And Fm saying I don't have the background or lobes to even know whether she might be putting me on, testing my depth.'
   'You've always had a special dread of depth-testing.'
   'How about why don't you just toss me the Bob and Axhandle and me'll go down and get things ready and wait for you,' Pemulis stage-whispers
to Hal's slacks' bottom, which is pretty much all that's visible from under the desk. Hal's hand comes up out of the leg-space under the desk and
raises one finger and shakes it a little for emphasis. Pemulis is standing next to the small TP viewer -- which is propped up like a large photo with a
buttressy thing that folds out of its back -- and the TP's disk- and cartridge-drive, which takes up less than a quarter of the desktop and has the
phone's console and power unit bolted into a receptacle on the drive's side.
   Hal's voice is muffled and has the strained pitch of someone trying to clear nests of dust-bunnied wire to find something. 'Except Orin I don't see
a great deal of pondering required here. The total anti-U.S. insurgency so far's been too hapless and small-potato for her theory to work. The odd
pie- and guano-bombardment, stretching mirrors across lonely roads, even demapping officials and botulizing the occasional peanut jar. None of
this is exactly bringing anyone to his knees. None of this is making Canada or Quebec look like any kind of serious threat.'
   Michael Pemulis, his jaunty cap pushed back and his lips pursed as if whistling, but not whistling, is very casually brushing his hand over the
drive and console's power unit, as if killing time by casually dusting. His other hand's jingling pocket-change. There's the sound of Hal clunking his
head on something under the desk. His bottom is bony and his belt has missed two loops. The power unit's toggle's next to a little red jewel of a
power-light that blinks at the same rate as a smoke alarm when the toggle's on ON.
   Hal sneezes twice. Pemulis taps his fingers in a little anapestic gallop over the unit's top. Orin sounds like he's sitting up straight. 'Hallie kid now
you're right with me, this is where your pondering lobes come in, because that was just my response, that there was nothing sufficiently more than
just an annoying gnat-like annoyance about the insurgencies, which is where she moved beyond my depth back into l(a), if you remember, when
she raised this samizdat-word in connec--'
   a. Don't ask.
   b. Ibid.
   c. I.e., the Militant Grammarians of Massachusetts, a syntactic-integrity PAC Avril had put together with two or three very dear friends and
colleagues around metro Boston.
   d. The Year of the Whisper-Quiet Maytag Dishmaster's anti-sclerotic miracle-food craze.
   e. The then-skinny Eliot Kornspan, before Loach and Freer got hold of him.
   f. At once high-tech and somehow atavistic, Telegrocery services let you order off your TP and then have the stuff brought right to your door by
college-studenty types, often within hours, saving one the stress and fluorescent hassle of public food-shopping. As of Y.D.A.U. it's still very big in
some areas and not all that big in others. The first Tele-grocery service didn't even launch in metro Boston until YY2007MRCVMETIUFI/
ITPSFH,O,OM(s), and it's still mostly in Boston a downscale and blue-collar thing, oddly.
   g. Interlace serves just about all of habitable O.N.A.N.; each nation comprises (roughly speaking) an entertainment-dissemination 'Grid.'
   h. After Meech Lake I, Charlottetown I and II, and Meech Lake II, this was Ottawa's fifth and final attempt to placate Quebec with a
constitutional amendment formalizing the Gallic province's right to 'preserve and promote' a 'distinct society and culture.'
   i. The French and Indian War, known to Québecers as 'La Guerre des Britanniques et des Sauvages,' BS c. 1754-60, at the final battles of which,
at the Plains of Abraham in '59 and Montreal in '60, the English and Americans kicked ass and took names in a large way that's never quite been
forgotten by the Québecois, whose memory for insult is the stuff of legend. The wily Amherst was there, too, at Ticonderoga and Montreal, with his
trusty smallpox-blankets.
   j. Grammar and Meaning.
   k. The Clean U.S. Party of Johnny Gentle, Famous Crooner.
   1. The Calgarian pro-Canadian Phalanx.

