There was then some trickiness in the situation when the demi-maison's woman offered the extension of a place for Marathe. Desperately addicted Henri the Swiss could sleep upon the Convertisofa in the rear office this very P.M., she said, if he was willing to endure the mess and sometimes insects of the rear office. The woman had a ripe spot of sympathique for the disableds, Marathe could see. For trickiness in the situation, no lines had been prepared by Fortier to defer this offer of the extension of the spot of treatment in the demi-maison. The woman in authority smiled that she could see in his playing with the fauteuil's wheels the addicted struggle between desperation and denial, she said. Marathe was rapidly calculating should he falsely accept and remain here for one night to observe for himself the description of the veiled patient from U.H.I.D., against should he exit and roll like no person's business to the nearest place of private telephoning to alert the A.F.R. at the shop that here at this demi-maison were of possibility real cartridges of the Entertainment, perhaps including a duplicatable Master or the anti-samizdat remedy cartridge of F.L.Q.'s allegation, to return to chez Antitoi and return later in squeaking force to the demi-maison and acquire both the cartridges and the veiled performer, if the U.H.I.D. patient of treatment is revealed as the disguised performer. The engineer of radio had spoken volubly of this person's veil and screen. Or calculating also whether to telephone not Antitoi Entertainent but the 24-hour costless prefix of M./Mlle. Steeply and convey the very same information instead, finally, first, to Bureau des Sérvices sans Spécificité, placing bets on O.N.A.N. and against Fortier, casting his lots finally with one side only, conveying his restenotic wife and entertainment-hungry children down from St.-Remid'Amherst's Convexity-ravaged wastes to live with him the rest of their lives down here among U.S.A.'s confusion of choices, demanding hidden protection from Steeply and high-income medical care for the heart- and head-difficulties of beloved Gertraude.

Or to tell this figure of medical authority to look out behind for a large spider and thereupon snap her slim neck with one hand and use the telephone console in this office to summon Fortier and an A.F.R. elite detail directly to this demi-maison. Or else to summon directly Steeply and the white-suiting forces of O.N.A.N.. The authority made a spire of her fingers beneath her chin and gazed at Marathe's cocked head with a face of respect and sympathy but not solicitude, also which made snapping her neck with one hand seem a sad choice for Marathe. He pretended that it was necessary to sniff. Mssrs. Fortier and Broullîme, the A.F.R. others he had known well since the days of when they stood together tensed at the crossings of many trains, beneath the sky's moon — none of them sensed truly that Marathe has lost the belly for this type of work. That Marathe, he must fight the nausea of the stomach as he pushed the sharpened handle of the manche à balai broomstick through the Antitoi's insides during the technical interview of the Antitoi, and later had vomited out into the alley under secrecy. One of the Office's dogs chewed at its haunch with great ferocity, in misery. In the U.S.A. of O.N.A.N., M./Mlle. Hugh/Helen Steeply of the clandestine U.S.O.U.S./U.S.B.S.S. would hide the family of Marathe in obscure suburban locales, with papers of identity fashioned by specialists in above reproach and no suspicion; and Marathe, his familiarity with the knowledge of Québecois insurgency would be comfortably rewarded once Notre Rai Pays seceded to alone draw down the wrath of chanteur-fou Gentle's anger. The A.F.R.'s triumph of dissemination of the lethal Entertainment would ensure Marathe's valuable welcome by Gentle and his wife's beloved treatments for the ventricle and lack of skull. Marathe pictured Gertraude with a helmet and hook of gold, breathing easily through expensive tubes. The variable of calculus was how long to remain and work for dissemination against when to jump to the safety of American welcome. Fortier's wrath would be implacable at Marathe's 'perdant son coeur,' <endnote>314</endnote> and it may be far wiser of waiting until Québec had been evicted and the A.F.R. were fully engaged to reveal his quadrupling for O.N.A.N., Marathe.

Knocking at the Office's door at the same time as entering came a young girl with missing teeth, radiating coldness from the exterior outside the demi-maison, leaning only her upper half of the body into the office through the doorway she had opened.

'Clocking in, boss,' the young girl stated in the flat nasality of Boston U.S.A.

The woman in authority smiled in return. 'Two more to interview, Johnette, then I'm off.'

'Pisser.'

'Can you let the people in from the shed when they come for Mrs. Lopate?'

The young and inclined girl nodded her slim head. In a nostril a generic diaper-pin was transpercé, which glittered in the fluorescence of the light as she nodded. 'And Janice says she's screwing out of here now and any message for her before she goes.' The authority negated with her head at this. The young girl in the door looked down upon Marathe and said 'Hey' or 'Eh' in a greeting of neutral emotions. Marathe smiled with desperation and pretended to sniff. Visible smoke's odor came through the open door from the noisy salon beyond it. Marathe decided firmly against the snapping of any necks upon this visit, because of bodies leaning with suddenness into the office unexpectedly. The torso of the person began to withdraw as suddenly the authority looked up and stated 'Oh and Johnette?'

The door swung more open once more as the returned upper half replied 'Yo.'

'Do me a favor? Clenette H. brought some donie-cartridges down from E.T.A. this afternoon?'

'Let me guess.'

'The natives are restless.' The authority laughed aloud. 'Something new.'

The torso laughed as well. 'Did you see McDade's watching that Korean thing again out here?'

'So can you just run them through after lights-out, as many as you can, check and make sure they're appropriate?'

'No skin, no substances, light drinking only,' the young girl said in the manner of reviewing the rehearsal of something learned.

'As many as you can get through, and leave them on Janice's desk, and I'll have her put them out at the start of the day-shift tomorrow.'

The young girl of substitute authority made a curious circle with two of her fingers in the air of the doorway. Some kind of signal of the hand to the chief authority. Every finger of the hand of the girl wore a ring of different type. 'The natives'll be grateful, for once.'

'They're in the cabinet with the intakes,' the authority told her.

'I'll watch them during Dream Duty, as many as there's time.'

'And Johnette?'

Once more the torso reextended inward.

The woman with authority said 'And keep Emil and Wade from tormenting David K., will you please?'

Marathe smiled largely as the door closed entirely and the authority made a small motion of apologies for being interrupted. 'I do not have these meanings donie and natives, if I may boldly ask,' he said. 'Nor etier.'

A laugh of friendliness. It occurred to Marathe that this was a happy person. 'Donies are donated goods. Which we depend on more than we'd like. The residents and alums are always on the lookout. Sometimes we call the current residents the natives; we mean it as affectionate. That was Johnette, she's living <endnote>315</endnote> staff. We've got two living staff, alums of the house. One's under the weather, but Johnette's — you'll like Johnette. Johnette's a keeper. E.T.A. is letters, E-T-A.'

Marathe pretended to laugh aloud. 'I beg a pardon, for I thought some etier in the pronunciation of my native Swiss.'

The authority smiled with understanding. 'E.T.A.'s a private school. We usually get some residents on up there, part-time. It's just up the hill.' Seeing the deep intake of veil which his inhaling caused for one moment only, the authority expressed surprise of the face and said 'But you did know Ennet's a working house. Residents have a month to find work, normally.'

Exhaling with care, Marathe gestured faintly as in But of course.