     Carved out of sedimentary shale and ferrous granite and generic morphic crud -- at more or less the same time the hilltop's
bulge was shaved off and rolled and impacted level for tennis -- are E.T.A.'s abundant tunnels. There are access tunnels and
hallway tunnels, with rooms and labs and Pump Room's Lung-nexus off both sides, utility tunnels and storage tunnels and little
blunt off-tunnels connecting tunnels to other tunnels. Maybe about sixteen different tunnels in all, in a shape that's more generally
ovoid than anything else.
     11/11, 1625h., LaMont Chu, Josh Gopnik, Audern Tallat-Kelpsa, Philip Traub, Tim ('Sleepy T.P.') Peterson, Carl Whale,
Kieran McKenna -- the bulk of the ambulatory sub-14 male Eschatonites -- plus ten-year-old Kent Blott -- are 26 meters
directly below the Hal/Darkness match's Show Court with Glad Handle-Tie <footnote>270</footnote> trashbags and B.P. low-diffusion compact
mercuric flashlights. Plus Chu has a clipboard with a pen attached to its clamp with twine. The sounds of competitive sneaker-
movement and spectatorial bleacher-squeaks on the surface, travelling down through meters of compacted crud and polymerized
cement tunnel-ceiling w/ parget-layer, sound rather like the stealthy dry scuttle of rodents, vermin. And this heightens the
excitement that's part of why they're really down here.
     One part of the reason they're down here is that small U.S. boys seem to have this fetish for getting down in the enclosed
fundaments underneath things -- tunnels, caves, ventilator-shafts, the horrific areas beneath wooden porches -- rather the way
older U.S. boys like great perspectival heights and spectacular views encompassing huge swaths of territory, this latter fetish
accounting for why E.T.A.'s hilltop site is one of its trump-cards in the recruiting war with Port Washington and other Eastern-
seaboard academies.
     Another part is a semi-punitive shit detail in which certain players -- judged to have been involved in the recent Eschaton
nonstrategic-combat debacle, but who are uninjured <footnote>271</footnote> and not in the much severer hot water that the Big Buddies on the
scene are in -- have been punitively remanded below ground in P.M. shifts on what's supposed to constitute an unpleasant chore,
to scout out the tunnelled route the TesTar Ail-Weather Inflatable Structures Corp.'s professional guys will have to take as they
haul out from the Lung-Storage Room the fiberglass struts and crosspieces and dendri-urethane folds that compose the Lung, for
erection of the Lung, when the E.T.A. administration finally decides that the late-fall weather has gone beyond character-building
and become an impediment to development and morale. This will be soon. Because the prorectors live in rooms off the larger
tunnels and F. D. V. Harde's Physical Plant and Maintenance guys have their offices and supplies down here, and because Dr.
James Incandenza's old optics and editing facilities are down here off one of the main tunnels and get used for Leith/Ogilvie
classes in entertainment production and for optical science tutorials etc., and because a couple of the secondary and off-tunnels are
used for temporary storage by departing seniors who can't tote eight or more years' worth of accumulated stuff in one post-
graduate load -- especially if they jet off to some novitiate-pro Satellite circuit for the summer, because that means air travel, two
bags plus gear, max -- some of the tunnels become badly littered in the warm season with trash-type material. And sometimes
there's bulky-possession-type overflow from the little curved storage tunnels off the prorectors' hallway. Smaller kids are perfect
for recons into low narrow tunnels partly blocked with dross, and even though it's no secret around E.T.A. that the smaller boys
spend a fair amount of time down in the tunnels anyway, a retributive aspect is lent to this recon-detail by making the kids take
down Handle-Tie trashbags to clear away littered exam papers and lab-handouts, calculator-batteries and banana peels and Kodiak
smokeless-tobacco tins and spirals of synthetic-gut racquet-string, and Maintenance guys' hideous cigar-butts -- Sleepy T.P. finds
two bright Trojan wrappers just off the prorectors' hallway-tunnel, and then a couple meters farther along the floor the vermiform
gleam of an actual condom, and there's some high-register debate about whether it's a used condom or not, and poor old Kent
Blott is finally put in charge of picking it up and putting it in a trashbag, just in case it's a used condom -- and empty boxes of
complimentary corporate gear, and full boxes of faggy or poorly-absorbent gear nobody wants, and Habitant can-wrappers, and
senior trunks and dorm-sized fridgelettes, etc.; and also to move whatever boxes they can heft, clear them out of the TesTar guys'
access-route into the Lung-Storage and Pump Rooms; and LaMont Chu is supposed to note the location of any boxes or objects
too bulky for them to move out of the way, and beefy custodial guys will be dispatched to handle them as they see fit.
     This is why a fair number of the smaller E.T.A. males don't see Stice take a set off Hal Incandenza and nearly beat him, is that
they were remanded down here by Neil Hartigan right after post-conditioning showers.
     As noted already, they don't much mind it, being down here, now in one of the child-size-diametered off-tunnels between the
prorectors' hallway and the Lung-Storage Room. The Eschatonites are down here quite a lot anyway. In fact the sub-14 E.T.A.s
historically have a kind of Tunnel Club. Like many small boys' clubs, the Tunnel Club's unifying raison d'etre is kind of vague.
Tunnel Club activities mostly involve congregating informally in the better-lit main tunnels and hanging out and catching each
other in lies about their lives and careers before E.T.A., and recapitulating the most recent Eschaton (usually only about five a
term); and the Club's only formal activity is sitting around with a yellowed copy of Robert's Rules endlessly refining and
amending the rules for who can and can't join the Tunnel Club. A true boy-type club, the Tunnel Club's least vague raison d'etre
has to do with exclusion. The vital No-Girls exclusion is the only ironclad part of the Tunnel Club's charter. <footnote>272</footnote> With the
exception of Kent Blott, every boy down here on this detail is an Eschatonite and a member of the Tunnel Club. Kent Blott,
ineligible for Eschaton because he's a humanities-type kid and hasn't even taken quadrivial Algebra yet, and excluded from the
Club under every incarnation of the eligibility requirements thus far, is down here solely because he was heard to maintain at
lunch that he was in the north part of the main tunnel between the Comm.-Ad. locker rooms and the subterranean laundry room
this a.m., short-cutting back to his room in West House after drills and a sauna, and claimed to have espied -- scuttling out of his
mercuric light toward one of the secondary tunnels to Subdorms C and D and the East Courts and this same general tunnel-area
they're now in -- to have sighted what was either a rat or, he said, what looked even more like a Concavitated feral hamster. So
the Es-chatonites are also enthusiastic to be down here for potential rodent-recon, checking out Blott's claim, and they've brought
what's either a very nervous or very excited Blott down with them, so they can trace the possible routes Blott said he saw the
rodent maybe take, filling their Glad Handle-Ties and noting heavy items along the way, and also so they can immediately
encircle and discipline Kent Blott if it turns out he was yanking people's chains. Plus they make Blott be the one to take full
trashbags and tie their plastic handles together and drag them back to where the expedition started -- the entrance to the large
smooth main tunnel by the boys' sauna -- since none of them enjoys dragging full trashbags solo through dark tunnels with the
rodential squeaking of match play and spectation far above. Chu holds a penlight in his teeth and writes heavy stuff down. They've
filled several bags and gotten the lighter shit stacked off back enough to create a narrow route almost all the way to the Pump
Room, around which Room hangs a strange sweet stale burny smell that none of them can place. The applause as Hal Incandenza
barely takes the first set above sounds down here like faraway rain. The off-tunnel's dark as a pocket, but warm and dry, and
there's surprisingly little dust. Ducts and coaxials running along the low ceiling make Whale and Tallat-Kelpsa have to crouch as
they walk Point, clearing boxes and trying unsuccessfully to move fridgelettes back out of the way. There are several pockets of
small but heavy dorm-size Maytag fridgelettes, the kind of thing no graduate takes with him, panelled in dark wood-grain plastic,
some of them old models with three-prong plugs instead of chargers. Some of the empty fridgelettes have been indifferently
scrubbed out and have their doors partway open and smell stale. Most of Chu's inventory for beefy-adult removal are either
fridgelettes or locked trunks full of what sound like magazines and eight-year accumulations of pennies. The muffled rodential
squeak of sneakers far overhead excites the Tunnel Club boys and puts them on edge. Philip Traub keeps making little squeaky
noises and secretly tickling the back of people's necks, causing enormous excitement and much stopping and starting and tightly-
enclosed whirling around, until Kieran McKenna captures Traub tickling Josh Gopnik in the bright beam of his P.B. light and
Gopnik punches Traub in the radial nerve, and Traub clutches his arm and weeps and says he's quitting and going topside --
Traub's the youngest kid here except for Blott and is a probationary second-string launcher in most Eschatons -- and they have to
stop and let Chu note and mark two discarded fridgelettes while Peterson and Gopnik try to distract and amuse Traub into staying
and not retreating back up to Nwangi and making a high-pitched stink.
     Discarded fridgelettes, empty boxes, immovable and complexly-address-labelled trunks, used athletic tape and Ace bandages,
the occasional empty Visine bottle (which Blott stashes in his sweatshirt-pouch, for Mike Pemulis's next contest), Optics I & II lab
reports, broken ball machines and stray tennis balls too dead even for the repressurization machine, broken or discarded TP
cartridges of stroke-analysis filmings or worn-out entertainments, an anomalous set of parfait glasses, fruit peels and AminoPal
energy-bar-wrappers that the Club itself had left down here after meetings, discarded curls of grip and tensile string, several
incongruous barrettes, several old broadcast televisions some older kids used to like to keep around to watch the static, and, along
the seam of wall and floor, brittle limb-shaped husks of exfoliated Pledge, expanses of arm and leg already half-decayed into
fragrant dust -- this comprising the bulk of the crud down here, and the kids don't much mind scanning and inventorying and
bagging it, because their minds are diverted by something else very exciting, a kind of possible raison d'etre for the Club itself,
unless Blott had been tweaking their Units, in which case look out Blott, is the consensus.
     Gopnik to a sniffling Traub, while Peterson shines his flashlight on the clipboard for Chu: 'Mary had a little lamb, its fleece
electrostatic / And everywhere that Mary went, the lights became erratic.'
     Carl Whale pretends to be immensely fat and moves along the wall with a blimpish splay-legged waddle.
     Peterson to Traub, while Gopnik holds the light: 'Eighteen-year-old top-ranked John Wayne / Had sex with Herr Schtitt on a
train / They had sex again/And again and again/And again and again and again,' which the slightly older kids find more
entertaining than Traub does.
     Kent Blott asks why a wispy-dicked blubberer like Phil gets to be in the Tunnel Club while his own applications get turned
down, and Tallat-Kelpsa cuts him short by doing something to him in the dark that makes Blott shriek.
     It's utterly dark except for the dime-sized discs of their low-diffusion B.P.s, because they've left the tunnels' strings of bare
overhead bulbs off, because Gopnik, who's originally from Brooklyn and knows from rodents, says only a complete booger-eating
moron would do rat-reconnaissance in the light, and it seems reasonable to assume that feral hamsters, also, have a basically ratty
attitude toward light.
     Chu has Blott see whether he can lift a bulky old doorless microwave oven that's lying on its side up next to one wall, and
Blott tries and barely lifts it, and pules, and Chu marks the oven down for the adults to lift and tells Blott to drop it, which
invitation Blott takes literally, and the crash and tinkle infuriate Gopnik and McKenna, who say that scanning for rodents with
Blott is like fly-fishing with an epileptic, which cheers Traub up quite a bit.
     Feral hamsters -- bogey-wise right up there with mile-high toddlers, skull-deprived wraiths, carnivorous flora, and marsh-gas
that melts your face off and leaves you with exposed gray-and-red facial musculature for the rest of your ghoulish-pariah life, in
terms of late-night hair-raising Concavity narratives -- are rarely sighted south of the Lucíte walls and ATH-SCME'd checkpoints
that delimit the Great Concavity, and only once in a blue moon anywhere south of like the new-border burg of Methuen MA,
whose Chamber of Commerce calls it 'The City That Interdependence Rebuilt,' and anyway pace Blott are hardly ever seen solo,
being the sort of rapacious locust-like mass-movement creature that Canadian agronomists call 'Piranha of the Plains.' An
infestation of feral hamsters in the waste-rich terrain of metro Boston, to say nothing of the clutter-tunnelled E.T.A. grounds,
would be an almost grand-scale public-health disaster, would cause simply no end of adult running-in-circles and knuckle-biting,
and would consume megacalories of displaced pre-adolescent stress for the E.T.A. players. Every ear-cocked eye-peeled bag-
toting kid in the off-tunnel this afternoon is hoping hamster in a big way, except for Kent Blott, who's hoping simply and fervently
for some sort of rodential sighting or scat-sample that'll keep him from being disciplinarily hung upside-down in a lavatory stall to
shriek until a staff-member finds him. He reminds the Tunnel Clubbers that it's not like he'd claimed he espied the thing actually
heading in this direction, he'd only seen the thing scuttling in a way that seemed to suggest a tendency or like probability of
heading in this direction.
     One whole box on its side with its frayed strapping tape split has spilled part of a load of old TP-cartridges, old and mostly
unlabelled, out onto the tunnel floor in a fannish pattern, and Gopnik and Peterson complain that the cartridge-cases' sharp edges
put holes in their Glad bags, and Blott is dispatched with three bags of cartridges and fruit rinds, each only about half full, back to
the lit vestibule outside the Comm.-Ad. tunnel's start, where a serious pile of bags is starting to pile fragrantly up.
     Plus a confirmed feral-hamster sighting, Chu and Gopnik and 'S.T.P.'
     Peterson have agreed, could well distract the Headmaster's office from post-Eschaton reprisals against Big Buddies Pemulis,
Incandenza and Axford, whom the Club's Eschatonite faction doesn't want to see reprised against, particularly, though the
consensus is nobody would much mind seeing the malefic Ann Kittenplan hung out to dry in a serious way. Plus hamster-
incursions could be posited to account for the occult appearance of large and incongruous E.T.A. objects in inappropriate places,
which started in August with the thousands of practice balls found scattered all over the blue lobby carpeting and the carefully
arranged pyramid of AminoPal energy bars found on Court 6 at dawn drills in mid-September and has gained momentum in a way
no one cares for one bit -- feral hamsters being notorious draggers and rearrangers of stuff they can't eat but feel compelled to
fuck with anyway, somehow -- and so ease the communal near-hysteria the objects have caused among aboriginal blue-collar
staff and sub-16 E.T.A. alike. Which would make the Tunnel Club guys something like heroes, fore-seeably.
     They move along the tunnel, their mercuric lights Xing and separating and forming jagged angles, colored faintly pink.
     But even a confirmed rat would be a coup. Dean of Academic Affairs Mrs. Inc has a violent phobic thing about vermin and
waste and insects and overall facility hygiene, and Orkin men with beer-bellies and playing cards with naked girls in high-heeled
shoes on the backs (McKenna's claim) spray the bejeesus out of the E.T.A. grounds twice a semester. None of the younger E.T.A.
boys -- who have the same post-latency fetish for vermin they have about subterranean access and exclusive Clubs -- none of
them has ever once gotten to see or trap a rat or roach or even so much as a lousy silverfish anyplace around here. So the unspoken
consensus is that a ham-ster'd be optimal but they'd settle for a rat. Just one lousy rat could give the whole Club a legit raison, an
explicable reason for congregating underground -- all of them are a bit uneasy about liking to congregate underground for no
good or clear reason.
     'Sleeps, you think you could lift that and carry it?'
     'Chu man I wouldn't even get up next to whatever that is much less touch it.'
     Blott's footfalls and tuneless whistling can be heard from far away, returning, and the distant squeak of overhead sneakers.
     Gopnik stops and his light pans, playing on faces. 'OK. Somebody farted.'
     'What's this up next to it, Sleeps?' Chu backing up to widen his light's beam on something broad and squat and dark.
     'Could I get some lights over here on this you guys?'
     'Because did somebody go ahead and cut one in this little unventilated space?'
     'Chu, it's a room fridge, that's all.'
     'But it's bigger than the room fridges.'
     'But it's not as big as a real fridge.'
     'It's in-between.'
     'I do smell something, though, Gop, I admit.'
     'There is a smell. If somebody farted, speak up.'
     'Otherwise it's a smell.'
     'Don't try to describe it.'
     'Sleeps, that's no human fart I've ever smelled.'
     'It's too powerful for a fart.'
     'Maybe Teddy Schacht was having an attack and staggered down here just to cut one.'
     Peterson trains his light on the midsized brown fridge. 'You don't possibly think Chu says 'No way. No way.'
     'What?'Blott says.
     'Don't even think it,' Chu says.
     'I don't even think any kind of mammal could fart that bad, Chu.'
     Peterson's looking at Chu, both of their faces pale in the mercuric light. 'No way somebody'd graduate and leave and put their
fridge down here without taking the food out.'
     Blott goes 'Is that the smell?'
     'Was this Pearson's fridge last year?'
     Sleepy T.P. turns around. 'Who smells a, like, a like decay-element?'
     Lights on the tunnel ceiling from upraised hands.
     'Quorum on decay-type odor.'
     'Should we check?' Chu says. 'Blott's hamster might be in there.'
     'Gnawing on something unspeakable, maybe.'
     'You mean open it?'
     'Pearson had a bigger than usual fridge.'
     "Open it?'
     Chu scratches behind his ear. 'Me and Gop'11 light it up, Peterson opens it.'
     'Why me?'
     'You're closest, Sleeps. Hold your breath.'
     'Jesus. Well back off up here so I can jump way back if anything like flies out.'
     'Nobody could be so low. Who would go off and leave a full fridge?'
     'Happy to back way, way off,' says Carl Whale, his light receding.
     'Not even Pearson could be that low, leaving food in an unplugged fridge.'
     'This could explain rodent-attraction and then some.'
     'Now look out ... ready? ... hummph.'
     'Ow! Get off!'
     'Put the light ov-- oh my God.' 'Eeeeeeeyu.' 'Hhhhwwwww.' 'Oh my God.' 'Bllaaaaarrr.'
     'Such a smell I'm smelling!'
     'There's mayonnaise! He left mayonnaise in there.' 'Why the bulge in the top of the lid?' 'The ballooning carton of orange
juice!' 'Nothing could live in that, rodent or otherwise.' 'So why's that sandwich-meat moving?' 'Maggots?' 'Maggots!'
     'Shut it! Sleeps! Kick it shut!'
     'This right here is exactly as close as I'm ever getting to that fridge ever again, Chu.'
     'The smell's expanding!'
     'I can smell it from here!': Whale's tiny distant voice.
     'I'm not enjoying this at all.'
     'This is Death. Woe unto those that gazeth on Death. The Bible.'
     'What're maggots?'
     'Should we just run really fast the other way?'
     'Second that.'
     'This is probably what the rat or hamster smelled,' Blott ventures.
     'Run!'
     High receding voices, bobbing lights, Whale's light way out front.