     Having traced -- through the strenuous technical interview of the sar-torially eccentric cranio-facial-pain-specialist, whom
they had traced through the regrettably fatal technical interview of the young burglar<footnote>300</footnote> whose electrical-surge-tolerance
proved considerably lower than that of his room's computer's machinery -- having traced their best chances at a copy to the
hapless Antitois' establishment, it had taken the A.F.R. then several days to find it there, the real Entertainment.
     A.F.R.'s U.S.A. cell's leader, Fortier, the son of a Glen Almond glass-blower, had allowed none of the mirrors to be broken or
dismantled. In all other respects, the search had been methodical and thorough. It was a neat search and also orderly, with time
taken. Because the viewer of the shop was visually dysfunctional, a consumer TP had been purchased and set up for volunteer
viewing in the room of storage off the shop's back room. Each cartridge of the shop's exhaustive shelves was sampled by a
volunteer, then discarded in one of the huge metal coffre d'amas in the alley outside the shop's rear door. A detail had been
assigned to roll the extinguished Antitoi brothers in construction-plastic and place them in a room of storage off the back room.
This was for hygienic purposes. A detail also had procured an oilskin windowshade for the front door's glass, also some printed
signs which read CLOSED, ROPAS, and RELACHE. No person had knocked at the door after the first hours, thus.
     Quickly, on the first day, in a liquor box which was damp and smelled, they had found an example of the rival F.L.Q.'s
tactical street-display cartridges, with its crudely stamped smiling face and the 'il NE FAUT plus qu'on pursuive le BONHEUR'
embossed upon it. And young Tassigny, with characteristic valor, volunteered to be rolled into the room of storage and strapped
in, in order to verify this, and Fortier allowed this. All had drunk the gesture of a toast to Tassigny and promised to look after his
aged father and fur-traps, and M. Fortier had embraced the young volunteer and kissed both his face's cheeks as he was rolled in
and fitted by M. Broullîme with EEG wires and strapped in before the viewer placed in the room of storage.
     Then the cartridge of the street-display turned out to be blank, void. Then another from this box, also wet: also blank. Two
blanks. Done. D'accord. Fortier, philosophical, counselled against disappointment or damage from a frustration -- he and Marathe
had counselled all along that the F.L.Q. displays of the Entertainment and the wheelchaired man were probably the hoax, instilling
of terror only. The fact of the displays which featured wheelchairs, a smack to the testicles of A.F.R. -- this was ignored. A.F.R.
wanted only to repossess this copy of the Entertainment. As well, chiefly, now to determine: could this copy of DuPlessis itself be
copied? This was the real objective: a Master cartridge. <footnote>301</footnote> Unlike the F.L.Q., les Assassins des Fauteuils Rollents had no
interest in blackmail or cartographic extortings for the Convexity's return. Not in re-Reconfiguration of O.N.A.N. or even its
charter's dissolution. The A.F.R. were interested only in dealing the sort of testicular frappe to the underbelly of U.S.A. self-
interests that would render Canada itself unwilling to face the U.S.A. retaliation for this -- if A.F.R. could secure, copy, and
disseminate the Entertainment, Quebec would be not so much allowed as required by Ottawa to secede, to face on its own the
wrath of a neighbor struck down by its own inability to say 'Now' to fatal pleasures. <footnote>302</footnote>
     Fortier bid the A.F.R. methodically to continue the search. Younger volunteers were rolled into the room of storage on a
rotating basis to sample each set of cartridges. Aside from some bickering over the Portuguese pornography, the rotation
proceeded with valor and care. The plastic-wrapped cadavers began to swell, but the plastic maintained hygienic conditions ade-
quately for viewing samples of the many cartridges in the room of storage. The search and inventory proceeded in a painstaking
and slow fashion.
     M. Fortier was required to absent himself for a period, in the search's middle, to help facilitate Southwest ops, the infiltration
of that relative of the auteur felt most strongly (according to Marathe) to have knowledge or possession of a duplicable copy.
There was reason to think M. DuPlessis had received his original copies from this relative, an athlete. Marathe felt U.S.B.S.S. felt
this person may have borne responsibility for the razzles and dazzles of Berkeley and Boston, U.S.A. The Americans' field-
operative, jutting with prostheses, had been clinging to this person like a bad odor.