     8 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT GAUDEAMUS IGITUR
     If it's odd that Mario Incandenza's first halfway-coherent film cartridge -- a 48-minute job shot three summers back in the
carefully decorated janitor-closet of Subdorm B with his head-mount Bolex H64 and foot-treadle -- if it's odd that Mario's first
finished entertainment consists of a film of a puppet show -- like a kids' puppet show -- then it probably seems even odder that
the film's proven to be way more popular with E.T.A.'s adults and adolescents than it is with the woefully historically underin-
formed children it had first been made for. It's proved so popular that it gets shown annually now every 11/8, Continental
Interdependence Day, on a wide-beam cartridge projector and stand-up screen in the E.T.A. dining hall, after supper. It's part of
the gala but rather ironic annual celebration of L-Day at an Academy whose founder had married a Canadian, and it usually gets
under way about !93Oh., the film, and everybody gathers in the dining hall, and watches it, and by Charles Tavis's festive
fiat <footnote>147</footnote> everybody gets to two-handed snack instead of squeezing tennis balls while they watch, and not only that but normal
E.T.A. dietary regulations are for an hour completely suspended, and Mrs. Clarke, the dietician out in the kitchen -- a former
Four-Star dessert chef normally relegated here to protein-conveyors and ways to vary complex carbs -- Mrs. Clarke gets to put on
her floppy white chef's hat and just go sucrotically mad, out in West House's gleaming kitchen. Everybody's supposed to wear
some sort of hat -- Avril Incan-denza positively towers in the same steeple-crowned witch's hat she teaches all her classes in
every 10/31, and Pemulis wears the complex yachting cap and naval braid, and pale and blotchy Struck a toque with a kind of
flitty aigrette, and Hal a black preacher's hat with a stern round downturned brim, etc. etc. <footnote>148</footnote> -- and Mario, as director and
putative author of the popular film, is encouraged to say a few words, like eight:
      'Thanks everybody and I hope you like it,' is what he said this year, with Pemulis behind him making a show of putting a
maraschino on top of the small twizzle of Redi-Whip that O. Stice had sprayed on the top of Mario's head-mount Bolex H64,
which counts as a hat, when the dessert-course's zenith had gotten slightly out of control near the I.-Day gala supper's end. These
few brief words and round of applause are Mario's big public yearly moment at E.T.A., and he neither likes the moment nor
dislikes it -- same with the untitled film itself, which really started out as just a kids' adaptation of The ONANtiad, a four-hour
piece of tendentiously anticonfluential political parody long since dismissed as minor Incandenza by his late father's archivists.
Mario's piece isn't really better than his father's; it's just different (plus of course way shorter). It's pretty obvious that somebody
else in the Incandenza family had at least an amanuentic hand in the screenplay, but Mario did the choreography and most of the
puppet-work personally -- his little S-shaped arms and falcate digits are perfect for the forward curve from body to snout of a
standard big-headed political puppet -- and it was, without question, Mario's little square Hush Puppy on the H^4's operant foot-
treadle, the Bolex itself mounted on one of the tunnel's locked lab's Husky-VI TL tripods across the over lit closet, mops and dull-
gray janitorial buckets carefully moved out past the frame's borders on either side of the little velvet stage.
      Ann Kittenplan and two older crew-cut girls sit in identical snap-brim fedoras with their arms crossed, Kittenplan's right hand
bandaged. Mary Esther Thode is grading midterms on the sly. Rik Dunkel has his eyes closed but is not asleep. Somebody's
slapped an ad hoc Red Sox cap on the visiting Syrian Satellite pro, and the Syrian Satellite pro sits with most of the prorec-tors,
looking confused, his shoulder taped up with a heatable compress, being polite about the comparative authenticity of Mrs. C.'s
baklava.
      Everyone gathers and all's quiet except for the sounds of saliva and chewing, and there's the yeasty-sweet smell of Coach
Schtitt's pipe, and E.T.A.'s youngest kid Tina Echt in her giant beret gets to be in charge of the lights.
      Mario's thing opens without credits, just a crudely matted imposition of fake-linotype print, a quotation from President
Gentle's second Inaugural: 'Let the call go forth, to pretty much any nation we might feel like calling, that the past has been
torched by a new and millennial generation of Americans,' against a full-facial still photo of a truly unmistakable personage. This
is the projected face of Johnny Gentle, Famous Crooner. This is Johnny Gentle, né Joyner, lounge singer turned teenybopper throb
turned B-movie mainstay, for two long-past decades known unkindly as the 'Cleanest Man in Entertainment' (the man's a world-
class retentive, the late-Howard-Hughes kind, the really severe kind, the kind with the paralyzing fear of free-floating
contamination, the either-wear-a-surgical-microfiltration-mask-or-make-the-people-around-you-wear-surgical-caps-and-masks-
and-touch-doorknobs-only-with-a-boiled-hankie-and-take-fourteen-showers-a-day-only-they're-not-exactly-showers-they're-with-
this-Dermalatix-brand-shower - sized - Hypospectral - Flash - Booth - that - actually - like - burns - your -outermost - layer -of-
skin - off - in - a - dazzling - flash - and - leaves - you - baby's -butt -new - and - sterile - once - you - wipe - off - the - coating - of
- fine - epidermal -ash-with-a-boiled-hankie kind) then in later public life a sterile-toupee-wearing promoter and entertainment-
union bigwig, Vegas schmaltz-broker and head of the infamous Velvety Vocalists Guild, the tanned, gold-chained labor union that
enforced those seven months of infamously dreadful 'Live Silence,' <footnote>149</footnote> the total scab-free solidarity and performative silence
that struck floor-shows and soundstages from Desert to NJ coast for over half a year until equitable compensation-formulae on
certain late-millennial phone-order retrospective TV-advertised So-You-Don't-Forget-Order-Before-Midnight-Tonight-type
records and CDs were agreed on by Management. Hence then Johnny Gentle, the man who brought GE/RCA to heel. And then
thus, at the millennial fulcrum of very dark U.S. times, to national politics. The facial stills that Mario lap-dissolves between are of
Johnny Gentle, Famous Crooner, founding standard-bearer of the seminal new 'Clean U.S. Party,' the strange-seeming but
politically prescient annular agnation of ultra-right jingoist hunt-deer-with-automatic-weapons types and far-left macrobiotic
Save-the-Ozone, -Rain-Forests, -Whales, -Spotted-Owl-and-High-pH-Waterways ponytailed granola-crunchers, a surreal union of
both Rush L.- and Hillary R.C.-disillusioned fringes that drew mainstream-media guffaws at their first Convention (held in sterile
venue), the seemingly LaRoucheishly marginal party whose first platform's plank had been Let's Shoot Our Wastes Into
Space, <footnote>150</footnote> C.U.S.P. a kind of post-Perot national joke for three years, until -- white-gloved finger on the pulse of an
increasingly asthmatic and sunscreen-slathered and pissed-off American electorate -- the C.U.S.P. suddenly swept to quadrennial
victory in an angry reactionary voter-spasm that made the U.W.S.A. and LaRouchers and Libertarians chew their hands in envy as
the Dems and G.O.P.s stood on either side watching dumbly, like doubles partners who each think the other's surely got it, the two
established mainstream parties split open along tired philosophical lines in a dark time when all landfills got full and all grapes
were raisins and sometimes in some places the falling rain clunked instead of splatted, and also, recall, a post-Soviet and -Jihad
era when -- somehow even worse -- there was no real Foreign Menace of any real unified potency to hate and fear, and the U.S.
sort of turned on itself and its own philosophical fatigue and hideous redolent wastes with a spasm of panicked rage that in
retrospect seems possible only in a time of geopolitical supremacy and consequent silence, the loss of any external Menace to hate
and fear. This motionless face on the E.T.A. screen is Johnny Gentle, Third-Party stunner. Johnny Gentle, the first U.S. President
ever to swing his microphone around by the cord during his Inauguration speech. Whose new white-suited Office of Unspecified
Services' retinue required Inauguration-attendees to scrub and mask and then walk through chlorinated footbaths as at public
pools. Johnny Gentle, managing somehow to look presidential in a Fukoama microfiltration mask, whose Inaugural Address
heralded the advent of a Tighter, Tidier Nation. Who promised to clean up government and trim fat and sweep out waste and hose
down our chemically troubled streets and to sleep darn little until he'd fashioned a way to rid the American psychosphere of the
unpleasant debris of a throw-away past, to restore the majestic ambers and purple fruits of a culture he now promises to rid of the
toxic effluvia choking our highways and littering our byways and grungeing up our sunsets and cruddying those harbors in which
televised garbage-barges lay stacked up at anchor, clotted and impotent amid undulating clouds of potbellied gulls and those
disgusting blue-bodied flies that live on shit (first U.S. President ever to say shit publicly, shuddering), rusty-hulled barges
cruising up and down petroleated coastlines or laying up reeky and stacked and emitting CO as they await the opening of new
landfills and toxic repositories the People demanded in every area but their own. The Johnny Gentle whose C.U.S.P. had been
totally up-front about seeing American renewal as an essentially aesthetic affair. The Johnny Gentle who promised to be the
possibly sometimes unpopular architect of a more or less Spotless America that Cleaned Up Its Own Side of the Street. Of a new-
era'd nation that looked out for Uno, of a one-time World Policeman that was now going to retire and have its blue uniform deep-
dry-cleaned and placed in storage in triple-thick plastic dry-cleaning bags and hang up its cuffs to spend some quality domestic
time raking its lawn and cleaning behind its refrigerator and dandling its freshly bathed kids on its neatly pressed mufti-pants'
knee. A Gentle behind whom a diorama of the Lincoln Memorial's Lincoln smiled down benignly. A Johnny Gentle who was as
of this new minute sending forth the call that 'he wasn't in this for a popularity contest' (Popsicle-stick-and-felt puppets in the
Address's audience assuming puzzled-looking expressions above their tiny green surgical masks). A President J.G., F.C. who said
he wasn't going to stand here and ask us to make some tough choices because he was standing here promising he was going to
make them for us. Who asked us simply to sit back and enjoy the show. Who handled wild applause from camouflage-fatigue- and
sandal-and-poncho-clad C.U.S.P.s with the unabashed grace of a real pro. Who had black hair and silver sideburns, just like his
big-headed puppet, and the dusty brick-colored tan seen only among those without homes and those whose homes had a
Dermalatix Hypospectral personal sterilization booth. Who declared that neither Tax & Spend nor Cut & Borrow comprised the
ticket into a whole new millennial era (here more puzzlement among the Inaugural audience, which Mario represents by having
the tiny finger-puppets turn rigidly toward each other and then away and then toward). Who alluded to ripe and available Novel
Sources of Revenue just waiting out there, unexploited, not seen by his predecessors because of the trees (?). Who foresaw
budgetary adipose trimmed with a really big knife. The Johnny Gentle who stressed above all -- simultaneously pleaded for and
promised -- an end to atomized Americans' fractious blaming of one another for our terrible <footnote>151</footnote> internal troubles. Here bobs
and smiles from both wealthily green-masked puppets and homeless puppets in rags and mismatched shoes and with used surgical
masks, all made by E.T.A.'s fourth -and fifth-grade crafts class, under the supervision of Ms. Heath, of match-sticks and Popsicle-
stick shards and pool-table felt with sequins for eyes and painted fingernail-parings for smiles/frowns, under their masks.
     The Johnny Gentle, Chief Executive who pounds a rubber-gloved fist on the podium so hard it knocks the Seal askew and
declares that Dammit there just must be some people besides each other of us to blame. To unite in opposition to. And he
promises to eat light and sleep very little until he finds them -- in the Ukraine, or the Teutons, or the wacko Latins. Or -- pausing
with that one arm up and head down in the climactic Vegas way -- closer to right below our nose. He swears he'll find us some
cohesion-renewing Other. And then make some tough choices. Alludes to a whole new North America for a crazy post-millennial
world. First U.S. President ever to use boss as an adjective. His throwing his surgical gloves into the miniature Inaugural crowd as
souvenirs is Mario's own touch.
     And Mario Incandenza's idea of representing President Gentle's cabinet as made up mostly of tall-coiffured black-girl puppets
in shiny imbricate-sequin dresses is also of course historically inaccurate, though the honorary inclusion, in that cabinet's second
year, of the Presidente of Mexico and the P.M. of Canada is both factual and of course seminal:
     pres. mex. and P.M. can. [in unison and green-mask-muffled]: It is tremendously flattering to be invited to sit on the cabinet
of the leadership of our beloved neighbor to the [choose one].
     gentle: Thanks, boys. You have gorgeous souls.
     It's not the cartridge's strongest scene, heavy on stock phrases and two-handed handshakes. But the historical fact that the
Presidente of Mexico and P.M. of Canada are honorarily appointed by President Gentle to be 'Secretaries' of Mexico and Canada
(respectively) -- as if the neighbors had already become sort of post-millennial American protectorates -- is foreshadowed as
ominous by a wavered D-minor on the soundtrack's organ -- Mrs. Clarke's Wurlitzer, at home -- but the two leaders' respectively
dusky and Gallic expressions seem unperturbed, under their green masks, as more stock phrases are invoked.
     Because budget and broom-closet constraints make artful transitions between scenes impractical, Mario has opted for the
inter-scenic 'entr'acte' device of having Johnny Gentle, Famous Crooner doing some of his repertoire's bouncier numbers, with the
cabinet-members undulating and harmonizing Motownishly behind him, and other puppets bouncing in tempo on- and offstage as
the script requires. Audience-wise, most of the E.T.A.s under twelve, cortexes spangling with once-a-year sweets, have by now
emigrated hyperactively under the long tables' tablecloths and met up on the dining-hall floor below and begun navigating on
hands and knees the special children's second world of shins and chairlegs and tile that exists under long tablecloths, making
various sorts of puerile trouble -- investigations from last year's I. Day are still in progress w/r/t which kid or kids tied Aubrey
deLint's shoelaces together and Krazy-Glued Mary Esther Thode's left buttock to the seat of her chair -- but everyone
glycemically mature enough to sit still and watch the cartridge is having a rousing good time, eating chocolate cannolis and
twenty-six-layer baklava and Redi-Whip by itself if they want and homemade Raisinettes and little cream-filled caramel things
and occasionally heckling or cheering ironically, every so often throwing sweets that stick to the screen, giving the smooth sterile
Gentle a sort of carbuncu-lar look that everyone approves. There is much cracking wise and baritone mimicry of a President
roundly disliked for over two terms now. Only John Wayne and a handful of other Canadian students sit unhatted, chewing
stolidly, faces blurred and distant. This American penchant for absolution via irony is foreign to them. The Canadian boys
remember only hard facts, and the glass-walled Great Convexity whose southern array of ATHSCME Effectuators blow the tidy
U.S.'s northern oxides north, toward home; and they feel with special poignancy on 11/8 the implications of their being down
here, south of the border, training, in the land of their enemy-ally; and the less gifted among them wonder whether they'll ever get
to go home again after graduation if a pro career or scholarship doesn't pan out. Wayne has a cloth hankie and keeps wiping his
nose.
     Mario's openly jejune version of his late father's take on the rise of O.N.A.N. and U.S. Experialism unfolds in little diffracted
bits of real news and fake news and privately-conceived dialogue between the architects and hard-choice-makers of a new
millennial era:
      gentle: Another piece of pre-tasted cobbler, J.J.J.C.?
      P.M. can.: Couldn't. Stuffed. Having trouble breathing. I would not say no to another beer, however. gentle: ... P.M. can.: ...
gentle: So we're sympatico on the gradual and subtle but inexorable disarmament and dissolution of NATO as a system of mutual-
defense agreements. P.M. can. [Less muffled than last scene because his surgical mask gets to have a prandial hole]: We are side
by side and behind you on this thing.
      Let the EEC pay for their oown defendings henceforth I say. Let them foot some defensive budgets and then try to subsidize
their farmers into undercutting NAFTA. Let them eat butter and guns for their oown for once in a change. Hey? gentle: You said
more than a mouthful right there, J.J. Now maybe we can all direct some cool-headed attention to our own infraternal affairs.
      Our own internal quality of life. Refocusing priorities back to this crazy continent we call home. Am I being dug?
      P.M. can: John, I am kilometers ahead of you. I happen to have my Term-In-Office-At-A-Glance book right with me here.
Now that the big frappeurs are being put doown, we are wondering what is the date I can be pencilling in for the removals of
NATO ICBM frappeurs from Manitoba.
      GENTLE: Put that pencil away, you good-looking Canadian. I've got more long shiny trailer-rigs full of large men with very
short haircuts and white suits than you can shake a maple leaf at heading for your silos right this very. Those complete totalities of
Canada's strategic capac-ity'll be out of your hair toot sweet.
      P.M. CAN: John, let me be the first world leader to call you a statesman.
      gentle: We North Americans have to stick together, J.J.J.C., especially now, no? Am I off-base? We're interdependent. We're
cheek to jowl.
      P.M. can: It is a smaller world, today.
      gentle: And an even smaller continent.
      This segues into an entr'acte, with continent squeezed in for world in 'It's a Small World After All,' which enjambment doesn't
do the rhythm section of doo-wopping cabinet girls a bit of good, but does usher in the start of a whole new era.