     7 NOVEMBER -- YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     Each of the eight to ten prorectors at the Enfield Tennis Academy teaches one academic class per term, usually a once-a-week
Saturday thing. This is mostly for certification reasons, <footnote>104</footnote> plus all but one of the prorectors are low-level touring
professionals, with low-level professional tennis players in general being not exactly the most candent stars in the intellectual
Orion. Because of all this, their classes tend to be not only electives but Academy jokes, and the E.T.A. Dean of Academic Affairs
regards prorector-taught classes -- e.g., in Fall Y.D.A.U., Corbett Thorp's 'Deviant Geometries,' Aubrey deLint's 'Introduction to
Athletic Spreadsheets,' or the colon-mad Tex Watson's 'From Scarcity to Plenty: From Putrid Stuff Out of the Ground to the Atom
in the Mirror: A Lay Look at Energy Resources from Anthracite to Annular Fusion,' etc. -- as not satisfying any sort of quadrivial
requirement. But the older E.T.A.s, with more latitude credit- and elective-wise, still tend to clamor and jostle for spots in the
prorectors' seminars, not just because the classes can be passed by pretty much anybody who shows up and displays vital signs,
but because most of the prorectors are (also like low-level tennis pros as a genus) kind of bats, and their classes are usually
fascinating the way plane-crash footage is fascinating. E.g., although any closed room she's in soon develops a mysterious and
overpowering vitamin-B stink he can just barely stand, E.T.A. senior Ted Schacht has taken Mary Esther Thode's perennially
batsoid 'The Personal Is the Political Is the Psy-chopathological: the Politics of Contemporary Psychopathological Double-Binds'
all three times it's been offered. M. E. Thode is regarded by the up-perclassmen as probably insane, by like clinical standards,
although her coaching proficiency with the Girls' 16's is beyond dispute. A bit on the old side for an E.T.A. prorector, Thode had
been a pupil of Coach G. Schtitt back at Schtitt's infamous old crop-and-epaulette Harry Hopman program in Winter Park FL and
then for a couple years at the new E.T.A. as a top and Show-bound if kind of rabidly political and not too tightly wrapped female
junior. Later blacklisted off both the Virginia Slims and Family Circle professional distaff circuits after trying to organize the
circuits' more politically rabid and unwrapped players into a sort of radical post-feminist grange that would compete only in pro
tournaments organized, subsidized, refereed, overseen, and even attended and cartridge-distributed exclusively to not only women
or homosexual women, but only by, for, and to registered members of the infamously unpopular early-interdependence-era
Female Objectification Prevention and Protest Phalanx, <footnote>105</footnote> given the shoe, she'd come, practically with a bandanna-tied stick
over her shoulder, back to Coach Schtitt, who for historico-national reasons has always had a soft place inside for anyone who
seems even marginally politically repressed. Last spring's airless and B-redolent section of Thode's psycho-political offering, 'The
Toothless Predator: Breast-Feeding as Sexual Assault,' had been one of the most disorientingly fascinating experiences of Ted
Schacht's intellectual life so far, outside the dentist's chair, whereas this fall's focus on pathologic double-bind-type quandaries
was turning out to be not quite as compelling but weirdly -- almost intuitively -- easy: E.g., from today's:
     The Personal Is the Political Is the Psychopathological: The Politics of
     Contemporary Psychopathological Double-Binds
     Midterm Examination
     Ms. THODE November 7, Yr. of D.A.U.
     KEEP YOUR ANSWERS BRIEF AND GENDER NEUTRAL
     ITEM
     (la) You are an individual who, is pathologically kleptomaniacal. As a kleptomaniac, you are pathologically driven to steal,
steal, steal. You must steal.
     (Ib) But, you are also an individual who, is pathologically agoraphobic. As an agoraphobic, you cannot so much as step off
your front step of the porch of your home, without undergoing palpitations, drenching sweats, and feelings of impending doom.
As an agoraphobic, you are driven to pathologically stay home and not leave. You cannot leave home.
     (Ic) But, from (la) you are pathologically driven to go out and steal, steal, steal. But, from (Ib) you are pathologically driven
to not ever leave home. You live alone.
     Meaning, there is no one else in your home to steal from. Meaning, you must go out, into the marketplace to satisfy your
overwhelming compulsion to steal, steal, steal. But, such is your fear of the marketplace that you cannot under any circumstances,
leave home. Whether your problem is true personal psychopathology, or merely marginalization by a political definition
of'psychopathology,' nevertheless, it is a Double-Bind.
     (Id) Thus, respond to the question of, what do you do?
     Schacht was just looping the d in mail fraud when Jim Troeltsch's pseudo-radio program, backed by its eustacian-crumpling
operatic soundtrack, came over 112 West House's E.T.A.-intercom speaker up over the classroom clock. When no away-
tournaments or meets were going on, WETA student-run 'radio' got to 'broadcast' E.T.A.-related news, sports and community
affairs for ten or so minutes over the closed-circuit intercom every Tuesday and Saturday during the last P.M. class period, like
1435-I445h. Troeltsch, who's dreamed of a tennis-broadcast career ever since it became clear (very early) that he would be in no
way Show-bound -- the Troeltsch who spends every last fin his folks send him on his staggering InterLace/SPN-pro-match-
cartridge library, and spends almost every free second calling pro action with his room's TP's viewer's volume down; <footnote>106</footnote> the
kind of pathetic Troeltsch who shamelessly kiss-asses the InterLace/SPN sportscasters whenever he's on the scene of an I/SPN-
recorded jr. event, <footnote>107</footnote> pestering the sportscasters and offering to get them doughnuts and joe, etc.; the Troeltsch who already
owns a whole rack of generic blue blazers and practices combing his hair so that it has that glassy toupee-like look of a real
sportscaster -- Troeltsch's been doing the sports portion of WETA's weekly broadcast ever since Schacht's old man died of
ulcerative colitis and Ted came up to join his old childhood doubles partner at the Academy in the fall of the Year of the Trial-
Size Dove Bar, which had been four months after the late E.T.A. Headmaster's felo de se, when the flags were still at half-mast
and everybody's bicep was banded in black cotton, which the mesomorphic Schacht got excused from because of biceps-size;
Troeltsch'd already been doing WETA sports when he came, and he's been undislodgeable from the post ever since.
     The sports portion of WETA's broadcast is mostly just reporting the outcomes and scores of whatever competitive events the
E.T.A. squads have been in since the last broadcast. <footnote>108</footnote> Troeltsch, who approaches his twice-a-week duties with all possible
verve, will say he feels like the hardest thing about his intercom-broadcasts is keeping things from getting repetitive as he goes
through long lists of who beat whom and by how much. His quest for synonyms for beat and got beat by is never-ending and
serious and a continual source of irritation to his friends. Mary Esther's exams were notorious no-brainers and automatic A's if you
were careful with your third-person pronouns, and even while he listened closely enough to Troeltsch to be able to supply the
audience-feedback that tonight's dinner-table would be inescapable without, Schacht was already on the test's third item, which
concerned exhibitionism among the pathologically shy. 11/7's broadcast results were from E.T.A.'s 71-37 rout of Port
Washington's A and B teams at the Port Washington annual thing.
     'John Wayne at A-l 18's beat Port Washington's Bob Francis of Great Neck, New New York, 6-0, 6-2,' Troeltsch says, 'while
A-2 Singles' Hal Incandenza defeated Craig Burda of Vivian Park, Utah, 6-2, 6-1; and while A-3 K. D. Coyle went down in a
hard-fought loss to Port Wash's Shelby van der Merwe of Hempstead, Long Island 6-3, 5-7, 7-5, A-4 Trevor "The Axhandle"
Axford crushed P.W.'s Tapio Martti out of Sonora, Mexico, 7-5, 6-2.'
     And so on. By the time it's down to Boys A-i4's, Troeltsch's delivery gets terser even as his attempts at verbiform variety tend
to have gotten more lurid, e.g.: 'LaMont Chu disembowelled Charles Pospisilova 6-3, 6-2; Jeff Penn was on Nate Millis-Johnson
like a duck on a Junebug 6-4, 6-7, 6-0; Peter Beak spread Ville Dillard on a cracker like some sort of hors d'oeuvre and bit down
6-4, 7-6, while 14's A-4 Idris Arslanian ground his heel into the neck of David Wiere 6-1, 6-4 and P.W.'s 5-man R. Greg Chubb
had to be just about carried off over somebody's shoulder after Todd Possalthwaite moonballed him into a narcoleptic coma 4-6,
6-4, 7-5.'
     Some of Corbett Thorp's class on geometric distortions a lot of kids find hard; likewise deLint's class, for the software-inept.
And though Tex Watson's overall handle on Cold-Containment DT-annulation is shaky, his lay-physics survey of combustion and
annulation has some sort of academic validity to it, especially because he some terms gets Pemulis to guest-lecture when he and
Pemulis are in a period of detente. But the only really challenging prorected class ever for Hal Incandenza is turning out to be
Mile. Thierry Poutrincourt's 'Separatism and Return: Québecois History from Frontenac Through the Age of Interdependence,'
which to be candid Hal'd never heard much positive about and had always deflected his Moms's suggestions that he might
profitably take until finally this term's schedule-juggling got dicey, and which (the class) he finds difficult and annoying but
surprisingly less and less dull as the semester wears on, and is actually developing something of a layman's savvy for Canadianism
and O.N.A.N.ite politics, topics he'd previously found for some reason not only dull but queerly distasteful. The rub of this
particular class's difficulty is that Pou-trincourt teaches only in Québecois French, which Hal can get by in because of his youthful
tour through Orin's real-French Pléiade Classics but has never all that much liked, particularly sound-wise, Québecois being a gur-
gly, glottal language that seems to require a perpetually sour facial expression to pronounce. Hal sees no way of Orin's knowing
he was taking Poutrincourt's 'Separatism and Return' when he called to ask for help with Separatism, which Orin's asking for help
from him with anything was strange enough in itself.
     'Bernadette Longley reluctantly bowed to P.W.'s Jessica Pearlberg at 18 A-l Singles 6-4,4-6, 6-2, though A-2 Diane Prins
hopped up and down on the thorax of Port's Marilyn Ng-A-Thiep 7-6, 6-1, and Bridget Boone drove a hot thin spike into the right
eye of Aimee Middleton-Law 6-3, 6-3'; and so on, in classroom after classroom, while instructors grade quizzes or read or tap a
decreasingly patient foot, every Tues./Sat., while Schacht sketches prenatal dentition-charts in his exam's margins w/ a
concentrated look, not wanting to embarrass Thode by handing the no-brainer exam in too soon.
     Most of the early-Quebec stuff about Cartier and Roberval and Cap Rouge and Champlain and flocks of Ursuline nuns with
frozen wimples covered up to like U.N. Day Hal'd found mostly dry and repetitive, the wig-and-jerkin gentlemanly warfare stilted
and absurd, like slow-motion slapstick, though everyone'd been sort of queasily intrigued by the way the English Commander
Amherst had handled the Hurons by dispensing free blankets and buckskin that had been carefully coated with smallpox variola.
     '14's A-3 Felicity Zweig went absolutely SACPOP on P.W.'s Kiki Pfefferblit 7-6, 6-1, while Gretchen Holt made PW's
Tammi Taylor-Bing sorry her parents were ever even in the same room together 6-0, 6-3. At 5, Ann Kittenplan grimaced and
flexed her way to a 7-5, 2-6, 6-3 win over Paisley Steinkamp, right next to where Jolene Criess at 6 was doing to P.W.'s Mona
Ghent what a quality boot can do to a toadstool, 2 and 2.'
     Saluki-faced Thierry Poutrincourt leans back in her chair and closes her eyes and presses her palms hard against her temples
and stays like that all the way through every WETA broadcast, which always interrupts her last-period lecture and puts this
section slightly and maddeningly behind Separation & Return's other section, resulting in two required lesson-preps instead of
one. The sour Saskatchewanese kid next to Hal has been making impressive schematic drawings of automatic weaponry in his
notebook all semester. The kid's assigned ROM-diskettes are always visible in his book-bag still in their wrapper, yet the Skatch
kid always finishes quizzes in like five minutes. It had taken up to the week before Halloween to get through with the B.S. '67
Levesque-Parti-and-Bloc Québecois <footnote>109</footnote> and early Fronte de la Liberation Nationale stuff and up to the present Interdependent
era. Poutrincourt's lecture-voice has gotten quieter and quieter as history's approached its contemporary limit; and Hal, finding the
stuff rather more high-concept and less dull than he'd expected -- seeing himself as at his innermost core apolitical --
nevertheless found the Québecois-Separatism mentality almost impossibly convolved and confused and impervious to U.S.
     parsing, <footnote>110</footnote> plus was both com- and repelled by the fact that the contemporary-anti-O.N.A.N.-insurgence stuff provoked
in him a queasy feeling, not the glittery disorientation of nightmares or on-court panic but a soggier, more furtively nauseous kind
of sense, as if someone had been reading mail of Hal's that he thought he'd thrown away.
     The proud and haughty Québecois had been harassing and even terrorizing the rest of Canada over the Separation issue for
time out of mind. It was the establishment of O.N.A.N. and the gerrymandering of the Great Convexity (Poutrincourt's Canadian,
recall) that turned the malevolent attention of Quebec's worst post-F.L.N. insurgents south of the border. Ontario and New
Brunswick took the continental Anschluss and territorial Reconfiguration like good sports. Certain far-right fringes in Alberta
weren't too pleased, but not much pleases an Albertan far-rightist anyway. It was, finally, only the proud and haughty Québecois
who whinged, <footnote>111</footnote> and the insurgent cells of Quebec who completely lost their political shit.
     Quebec's anti-O.N.A.N. and thus -U.S. Séparatisteurs, the different terrorist cells formed when Ottawa had been the foe,
proved to be not a very nice bunch at all. The earliest unignorable strikes involved a then-unknown terrorist cell <footnote>112</footnote> that
apparently snuck down from the E.W.D.-blighted Pa-pineau region at night and dragged huge standing mirrors across U.S. Inter-
state 87 at selected dangerous narrow winding Adirondack passes south of the border and its Lucite walls. Naively empiricist
north-bound U.S. motorists -- a good many of them military and O.N.A.N.ite personnel, this close to the Concavity -- would see
impending headlights and believe some like suicidal idiot or Canadian had transversed the median and was coming right for them.
They'd flash their high beams, but to all appearances the impending idiot would just flash his high beams right back. The U.S.
motorists -- usually not to be fucked with in their vehicles, historically, it was well known -- would brazen it out as long as
anyone right-minded possibly could, but right before apparent impact with the impending lights they'd always veer wildly and
leave shoulderless 1-87 and put their arm over their head in that screaming pre-crash way and go ass-over-teakettle into an
Adirondack chasm with a many-petaled bloom of Hi-Test flame, and the then-unknown Québecois terrorist cell would remove the
huge mirror and truck off back up north via checkpointless back roads back into the blighted bowels of southern Quebec until next
time. There were fatalities this way well into the Year of the Tucks Medicated Pad before anyone had any idea they were diabolic-
cell-related. For over twenty months the scores of burnt-out hulls piling up in Adirondack chasms were regarded as either suicides
or inexplicable doze-behind-the-wheel-type single-car accidents by NNY State Troopers who had to detach their chinstraps to
scratch under their big brown hats over the mysterious sleepiness that seemed to afflict Adirondack motorists at what looked to be
high-adrenaline mountaintop passes. Chief of the new United States Office of Unspecified Services Rodney Tine pressed, to his
later embarrassment, for a series of anti-driving-when-drowsy Public Service spots to be InterLace-disseminated in upstate New
New York. It was an actual U.S. would-be suicide, a late-stage Valium-addicted Amway distributor from Schenectady who was at
the end of her benzodioxane-rope and all over the road anyway, and who by historical accounts saw the sudden impending
headlights in her northbound lane as Grace and shut her eyes and floored it right for them, the lights, never once veering, spraying
glass and micronized silver over all four lanes, this unwitting civilian who 'SMASHED THE ILLUSION,' 'MADE THE
BREAKTHROUGH' (media headlines), and brought to light the first tangible evidence of an anti-O.N.A.N. ill will way worse
than anything aroused by plain old historical Separatism, up in Quebec.