

     Gately dreamed he was with Ennet House resident Joelle van Dyne in a Southern motel whose restaurant's authoritarian sign
said simply EAT, in the U.S. South, in high summer, brutally hot, the foliage outside the room's broken windowscreen a parched
khaki, the air glassy with heat, the ceiling fan rotating at a second-hand's rate, the room's bed a lavish four-poster, tall and squishy,
the bedspread nubbly, Gately supine with his side on fire while newcomer Joelle v.D. raises her veil slightly to lick the sweat off
his lids and temples, whispering so the veil flutters around and fans him, promising him a p.m. of near-terminal pleasures,
undressing at the foot of the old tall bed, slowly, her loose light clothes moist with sweat and falling easily to the bare floor, and
an incredible female body, an inhuman body, the sort of body Gately's only ever seen with a staple in its navel, a body like
something you'd win in a raffle; and a fifth post forms on the four-poster, so to speak, which erect post's long-dormant height
obscures the nude newcomer's figure; and then when she moves around out of the pulsing shadow to lean in close and press her
inhuman body's face right up intimately close to his, she removes the veil, and on top of this body to die for is the unveiled
historical likeness of fucking Winston Churchill, complete with cigar and jowls and bulldog scowl, and the ghastliness of the
shock makes the rest of Gately's body go rigid, the pain of which wakes him with a jolted attempt to sit up that itself causes such a
blast of pain that he half passes back out again and lies there with rolling eyes and a round mouth.
     Gately's also powerless over memories of the older-type lady that had been their neighbor when he and his mother shared bed
and board with the M.P. A Mrs. Waite. There was no Mr. Waite. The smeared window of the little empty garage the M.P. kept his
weights in was right next to the spiny neglected garden Mrs. Waite kept in the narrow strip between the two houses. Mrs. Waite's
house had been shall we say indifferently maintained. Mrs. Waite's house had made the Gately house look like the Taj. There was
something wrong about Mrs. Waite. None of the parents said what it was, but none of the kids were allowed to play in her yard or
ring her bell on Halloween. Gately never got clear on what was supposed to be wrong about her, but the little poor neighborhood's
psyche throbbed with something dire about Mrs. Waite. Older kids drove across her lawn and shouted shit that Gately never quite
made out, at night. The littler kids thought they had it: they were pretty sure Mrs. Waite was a witch. Yes, she did look a little
witchy, but who over like fifty didn't? But the big thing was she kept jars of stuff she'd jarred herself in her little garage, brown-
green viscous nameless vegetoid stuff in mayonnaise jars stacked on steel shelves and rusty-lidded and bearded with dust. The
littler kids snuck in and broke some of the jars and stole one and ran away in mortal terror to break it elsewhere and then run
again. They dared each other to ride their bikes in tiny diagonals across the edge of her lawn. They told each other stories of
seeing Mrs. Waite in a pointy hat roasting missing kids whose pictures were on milk-cartons and pouring the juice into jars. Some
of the bigger littler kids even tried that inevitable gag of putting a paper bag full of dog shit on her stoop and lighting it. It was
somehow a further indictment of Mrs. Waite that she never complained. She rarely left her house. Mrs. Gately would never say
what was wrong about Mrs. Waite but absolutely forbade Don to fuck with her in any way. Like Mrs. Gately was in any position
to enforce any, like, íbr-biddings. Gately never fucked with Mrs. Waite's stored jars or rode across her lawn, and never much
joined in on the witch-stories, which who needed witches to fear and despise when you had the good old M.P. right there at the
kitchen table. But he was still scared of her. When he'd once seen her gnarly-eyed face up against the smeared garage window one
P.M. when he had left the M.P. to beating Mrs. Gately and gone out to lift weights he screamed and almost dropped the bench-
press bar on his Adam's apple. But over the long haul of a low-stimulation North Shore childhood, he'd gradually developed a
slight relationship with Mrs. Waite. He'd never all that much liked her; it wasn't like she was this lovable but misunderstood old
lady; it's not like he ran to her dilapitated house to confide in her, or bond. But he went over once or twice, maybe, under
circumstances he'd forgot, and had sat in her kitchen, interfaced a little. She was lucid, Mrs. Waite, and apparently continent, and
there was no pointy hat anywhere in sight, but her house smelled bad, and Mrs. Waite herself had swollen veiny ankles and little
white bits of that dried paste at the corners of her mouth and about a million newspapers stacked and mildewing all over the
kitchen, and the old lady basically radiated whatever mixture of unpleasantness and vulnerability it was that made you want to be
cruel to people. Gately was never cruel to her, but it's not like he loved her or anything. When Gately went over there the couple
times it was mostly when the M.P. was canning chowder and his mother had passed out in vomit she expected somebody else to
clean up, and he probably wanted to act out his kid's anger by doing something Mrs. G.'d pathetically tried to forbid. He didn't eat
much of whatever Mrs. Waite offered. She never offered him viscous material from a jar. His memories of whatever they
discussed are unspecific. She hung herself, eventually, Mrs. Waite -- as in eliminated her own map -- and because it was fall and
cool she wasn't found for maybe weeks after. It wasn't Gately who found her. A meter-reader guy found her several weeks after
Gately's eighth or ninth birthday. Gately's birthday was the same week as several other kids's in the neighborhood, by some
chance. Usually Gately'd have his party over with some of the other kids that were having their birthdays with a party. Hats and
Twister, X-Men videos, cake on Chinette plates, etc. Mrs. Gately was together enough to come a couple times. In retrospect, the
other kids' parents let Gately have birthdays with them because they'd felt sorry for him, he's involuntarily realized. But at some
sober neighbors' party, part of which was for his own eighth or ninth birthday, he remembers how Mrs. Waite had left her house
and come rung the sober neighbor's bell and had brought a birthday cake. For the birthday. A neighborly gesture. Gately'd spilled
the beans on the annual mass party at a kitchen-table interface with her. The cake was uneven and slightly tilted to one side, but it
was dark chocolate and decorated with four cursive names and had clearly been made with care. Mrs. Waite had spared Gately the
humiliation of putting just his name on the cake as if the cake was especially for him. But it was. Mrs. Waite had saved up for a
long time to afford to make the cake, Gately knew. He knew she smoked like a chimney and had given up cigarettes for weeks to
save up for something; she wouldn't tell him what; she'd tried to make her scary eyes twinkle when she wouldn't tell; but he'd seen
the mayonnaise jar full of quarters on a pile of papers and had wrestled with himself over promoting it, and won. But there were
only like nine candles on the cake when the party's Mom brought it in, and a couple of the kids having birthdays were like twelve,
was the private tip-off on who the cake was really for. The party's Mom had taken the cake at the door and said Thank You but
had neglected to invite Mrs. Waite in. Gately was in a position during Twister in the garage to see Mrs. Waite walking back home
across the street, slowly but very straightly and dignified and upright. A lot of the kids went to the garage door to look: Mrs. Waite
had rarely been seen outside her house before, and never off her property. The sober Mom brought the cake in the garage and said
it was a Touching Gesture from Mrs. Waite across the street; but she wouldn't let anybody eat the cake or even come close enough
to it to blow out the nine candles. The candles didn't all match. The candles burned down far enough so that there was a smell of
burnt frosting before they went out. The cake sat tilted by itself in a corner of the clean garage. Gately didn't defy the sober Mom
or any of the kids and eat a piece of the cake; he didn't even go near it. He didn't join in the delicious whispery arguments about
what kind of medical waste or roasted-kid renderings were in the cake, but he didn't stand up and argue with the other kids about
the fact of the poisoning, either. Before the party climaxed and the other kids that had got presents opened their presents, the sober
Mom had taken the cake into the kitchen when she thought nobody was watching and threw it out in the wastebasket. Gately
remembers the cake must have landed upside-down, because the unfrosted side was facing up in the waste-basket when he snuck
in and had a look at the cake. Mrs. Waite had disappeared back inside her house way before the Mom threw the cake away.
There's no way she could have seen the Mom take the uneaten cake back inside the house. A couple days later Gately had
promoted a couple packs of Benson & Hedges 100s from a Store 24 and put them in Mrs. Waite's mailbox, where junk mail and
utility bills were already piling up. He sometimes rang the bell but never saw her. Her bell had been a buzzer instead of a bell, he
remembers. She got found by a frustrated meter-reader some indefinite number of weeks after that. The circumstances of her death
and discovery became more dark myth for the littler kids. Gately wasn't so into self-torture as to think the cake getting not eaten
and getting thrown out was in any way connected with Mrs. Waite hanging herself. Everybody had their own private troubles,
Mrs. Gately had explained to him, and even at that age he could see her point. It's not like he'd like mourned Mrs. Waite, or
missed her, or even thought about her even once for many years after that. Which is what makes it somehow worse that his next,
even more unpleasant Joelle van Dyne pain-and-fever dream takes place in what is, unmistakably and unavoidably, Mrs. Waite's
kitchen, in great detail, right down to the ceiling's light-fixture full of dried bugs, the brimming ashtrays, the bar-graph of stacked
Globes, the maddening arrhythmic drip of the kitchen sink and the bad smell -- a mixture of mildew and putrid fruit. Gately is in
the ladder-back kitchen chair he used to sit in, the one with one rung broken, and Mrs. Waite is in her chair opposite, seated on the
thing he thought then was a weird pink doughnut instead of a hemorrhoid pillow, except in the dream Gately's feet reach all the
way to rest on the floor's dank tile, and Mrs. Waite is played by veiled U.H.I.D. House resident Joelle van D., except without her
veil, and what's more without any clothes, as in starkers, gorgeous, with that same incredible body as in the other one except here
this time with the face not of a jowly British P.M. but of a total female angel, not sexy so much as angelic, like all the world's light
had gotten together and arranged itself into the shape of a face. Or something. It looks like somebody, Joelle's face, but Gately
can't for the life of him place who, and it's not just the distraction of the inhumanly gorgeous naked bod below, because the dream
is not like a sex-dream. Because in this dream, Mrs. Waite, who is Joelle, is Death. As in the figure of Death, Death incarnate.
Nobody comes right out and says so; it's just understood: Gately's sitting here in this depressing kitchen interfacing with Death.
Death is explaining that Death happens over and over, you have many lives, and at the end of each one (meaning life) is a woman
who kills you and releases you into the next life. Gately can't quite make out if it's like a monologue or if he's asking questions and
she's responding in a Q/A deal. Death says that this certain woman that kills you is always your next life's mother. This is how it
works: didn't he know? In the dream everybody in the world seems to know this except Gately, like he'd missed that day in school
when they covered it, and so Death's having to sit here naked and angelic and explain it to him, very patiently, more or less like
Remedial Reading at Beverly H.S. Death says the woman who either knowingly or involuntarily kills you is always someone you
love, and she's always your next life's mother. This is why Moms are so obsessively loving, why they try so hard no matter what
private troubles or issues or addictions they have of their own, why they seem to value your welfare above their own, and why
there's always a slight, like, twinge of selfishness about their obssessive mother-love: they're trying to make amends for a murder
neither of you quite remember, except maybe in dreams. As Death's explanation of Death goes on Gately understands really
important vague stuff more and more, but the more he understands the sadder he gets, and the sadder he gets the more unfocused
and wobbly becomes his vision of the Death's Joelle sitting nude on the pink plastic ring, until near the end it's as if he's seeing her
through a kind of cloud of light, a milky filter that's the same as the wobbly blur through which a baby sees a parental face
bending over its crib, and he begins to cry in a way that hurts his chest, and asks Death to set him free and be his mother, and
Joelle either shakes or nods her lovely unfocused head and says: Wait.

