     Jim's eldest, Orin -- punter extraordinaire, dodger of flung acid extraordinaire -- had once shown Joelle van Dyne his
childhood collection of husks of the Lemon Pledge that the school's players used to keep the sun off. Different-sized legs and
portions of legs, well-muscled arms, a battery of five-holed masks hung on nails from an upright fiberboard sheet. Not all the
husks had names below them.
     Boylston St. east means she passes again the black-bronze equestrian statue of Boston's Colonel Shaw and the MA 54th,
illuminated now by a patch of emergent sunlight, Shaw's metal head and raised sword illicitly draped in a large Québecois fleur-
de-lis flag with all four irises' stems altered to red blades, so it's absurdly now a red white and blue flag; three Boston cops on
ladders with poles and shears; the Canadian militants come in the night, on the eve of Interdependence, thinking anyone cares
whether they hang things from historic icons, hang anti-O.N.A.N. flags, as if anyone not paid to remove them cares one way or the
other. The encaged and suicidal have a really hard time imagining anyone caring passionately about anything. And here too are E.
Boylston's dealers, sirens of the other, second cage, standing as always outside F.A.O. Schwartz, young little black boys, boys so
black they're blue, horrifically skinny and young, little more than living shadows in knit caps and knee-length sweatshirts and very
white hightops, shifting and blowing into their cupped hands, alluding to the availability of a certain Material, just barely alluding
is all, with their postures and bored blank important gaze. Certain salesmen have only to stand there. Certain types of sales: the
customer comes to you; and Lo. The cops at the flag across the street don't give them a look. Joelle hurries past the line of dealers,
she tries to, her clogs loose and clocking, tarrying for just a moment at the end, just past the gauntlet's end, still within two
extended hands' reach of the last bored dealer; for here on the street outside Schwartz is placed an odd adverting display, not a live
salesman of any sort but rather a humanoid figure of something that's better than cardboard, untouched by the vendors who don't
seem even to look, a display on an angled rear-mount stand like a photo-frame's stand, 2-D, the figure a man in a wheelchair, in a
coat and tie, his lap blanketed and no legs below, his well-fed face artistically reddened with some terrible joy, his smile's arc of
the extreme curvature that exists between mirth and fury, his ecstasy terrible to see, his head hairless and plastic and cast back, his
eyes on the blue harlequin-patches of the post-storm sky, looking straight up, or having a seizure, or ecstatic, his arms also up and
out in a gesture of submission or triumph or thanks, his oddly thick right hand the receptacle for the black spine of the case of
some new film cartridge being advertised for distribution, the cartridge stuck like a tongue out of a slot in his (lineless) palm;
except there is only this display, this ecstatic figure and a cartridge no feral vendor's removed, no mention of title, no blurbs or
quoted references to critics' thumbs, the case's spine itself bare black slightly pebbled generic plastic, conspicuously unlabelled.
Two Oriental women's shopping bags catch and make her raincoat billow slightly as Joelle stands there briefly, feeling the lines'
dealers looking at her, assessing; and then someone calls something to one of the cops halfway up the statue, using his first name,
which echoes slightly and breaks the spell; the little black boys look away. None of the passersby seem to notice the display she
stands before, reflecting. It's some kind of anti-ad. To direct attention at what is not said. Lead up to an inevitability you deny. Not
new. But an expensive and affecting display. The film-cartridge itself would be a blank, too, or the case empty, worthless because
it really can be removed all the way from the slot in the figure's hand. Joelle removes it and looks at it and puts it back. She's had
her last fling with film cartridges. Jim had used her several times. Jim at the end had filmed her at prodigious and multilensed
length, and refused to share what he'd made of it, and died w/o a note. <footnote>79</footnote> Her mental name for the man had been 'Infinite Jim.'
The display cartridge shoves home with a click. One of the such young dealers calls her Mama and asks where's the funeral at.
     For a while, after the acid, after first Orin left and then Jim came and made her sit through that filmed apology-scene and then
vanished and then came back but only to -- only four years seven months six days past -- to leave, for a while, after taking the
veil, for a while she liked to get really high and clean. Joelle did. Scrub sinks until they were mint-white. Dust the ceilings without
using any kind of ladder. Vacuum like a fiend and put in a fresh vacuum-bag after each room. Imitate the wife and mother they
both declined to shoot. Use Incandenza's toothbrush on tiles' grout.
     In places along Boylston cars are triple-parked. People's wipers are on that setting that Joelle, who does not drive, imagines to
read occasional on the controls. Her own personal Daddy's old car had wipers' controls on the turr-sígnal stalk by the wheel.
Available yellow cabs pass, hissing in the streets. Over half the passing cabs out here in the rain are advertising themselves as
available, purple numbers lit below TAXI. As she remembers things Jim was, besides a great filmic mind and her true heart's
friend, the world's best hailer of Boston cabs, known to have less hailed than conjured cabs in spots where Boston cabs by all
that's right just aren't, a hailer of Boston cabs in places like Veedersburg, Indiana and Powell, Wyoming, something in the
authority of the lifted arm's height, the oncoming taxi undergoing a sort of parallax as it bore down over tumbleweed streets, ap-
pearing under Incandenza's upraised palm as if awaiting benediction. He was a tall and physically slow-moving man with a great
love of taxis. And they loved him back. Never again a cab in four-plus years, after that. And so Joelle van Dyne, a.k.a. Madame
P., surrendered, suicidal, eschews tumbrel or hack, her solid clogs sounding formal on the smooth cement down Boyl-ston's
sidewalk past fine stores' revolving doors southeast toward serious brownstone-terrain, open coat swirling over poncho and
hanging rain breaking into stutters and drips.
     After she had smoked homemade freebase cocaine this A.M. for the last time and then fired up the Chore Boys and good
panties she'd used as a last filter and choked on burnt acetate when she shredded and smoked them, and had wept and imprecated
at the mirrors and thrown away her paraphernalia again for the final time, when an hour later she'd walked not formally to her T-
stop under a parliament of gathering storm-clouds and faint sticky bits of autumn thunder to ride to Upper Brighton and find Lady
Delphina, get real weight from Lady Delphina, so hard to just cut it off in mid-binge, on a Saturday, unless you just passed out, to
tell L.D. when she'd said goodbye and it was the last time it had been really the penultimate time but that this was the last time,
this was goodbye for real, and get serious weight from Lady Delphina, pay her twice the 8-gram rate as a generous farewell, as she
walked without much real formality to her T-stop and stood on the platform, each time mistaking little mutters of thunder for the
approach of the train, wanting more of it so badly she could feel her brain heaving around in its skull, then a pleasant and gentle-
faced older black man in raincoat and hat with a little flat black feather in the band and the sort of black-frame styleless spectacles
pleasant older black men wear, with the weary but dignified mild comportment of the older black, waiting alone with her on the
chill dim Davis Square subway platform, this man had folded his Herald neatly lengthwise and had it under the same arm he
tipped his hat with and said to excuse him if this was an intrusion, he said, but he'd had occasion to see one or two of these linen
veils before, around, like what she wore, and was interested and rendered curious. He pronounced all four syllables of interested,
which Joelle, from Kentucky, enjoyed. If he might be so bold, he said, tipping his hat. Joelle had engaged with him completely,
which was extremely rare, even off the air. She rather welcomed the chance to think about anything else at all, with the train
surely never pulling in. She reflected that the anecdote had gotten about, but not the incident's legacy, she said, as if that part were
hidden. The Union of the Hideously and Improbably Deformed was unofficially founded in London in B.S. 1940 in London U.K.
by the cross-eyed, palate-clefted, and wildly carbuncular wife of a junior member of the House of Commons, a lady whom Sir
Winston Churchill, P.M.U.K., having had several glasses of port plus a toddy at a reception for an American Lend-Lease
administrator, had addressed in a fashion wholly inappropriate to social intercourse between civilized gentlemen and ladies.
Unwittingly all but authoring the Union designed to afford the scopophobic empathic fellowship and the genesis of sturdy inner
resources through shame-free and unconstrained concealment, W. Churchill -- when the lady, no person's doormat, informed him
with prim asperity that he appeared to be woefully inebriated -- made the anec-dotally famous reply that while, yes, yea verily, he
was indeed inebriated, he would the following A.M. be once again sober, while she, dear lady, would tomorrow still be hideously
and improbably deformed. Churchill, doubtless under weighty emotional pressures during this period in history, had then
proceeded to extinguish his cigar in the lady's sherry and to place a finger-bowl napkin delicately over the ruined features of her
flaming visage. The laminated non-photo U.H.I.D. membership card Joelle showed the interested old black gentleman related all
this data and more in a point-size so tiny the card looked somehow both blank and defaced.