     20 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT GAUDEAMUS IGITUR
     I was in a zoo. There were no animals or cages, but it was still a zoo. It was close to a nightmare and it woke me before
O5OOh. Mario was still asleep, gently lit by the window's view of tiny lights down the hill. He lay very still and soundless as
always, his poor hands folded on his chest, as if awaiting a lily. I put in a plug of Kodiak. His four pillows brought Mario's chin to
his chest when he slept. I was still producing excess saliva, and my one pillow was moist in a way I didn't want to turn on a light
and investigate. I didn't feel good at all. A sort of nausea of the head. The feeling seemed worst first thing in the morning. I'd felt
for almost a week as if I needed to cry for some reason but the tears were somehow stopping just millimeters behind my eyes and
staying there. And so on.
     I got up and went past the foot of Mario's bed to the window to stand on one foot. Sometime during the night heavy snow had
begun to fall. I had been ordered by deLint and Barry Loach to stand on the left foot for fifteen minutes a day as therapy for the
ankle. The countless little adjustments necessary to balance on one foot worked muscles and ligaments in the ankle that were
therapeutically unreachable any other way. I always felt sort of dickish, standing on one foot in the dark with nothing to do.
     The snow on the ground had a purple cast to it, but the falling and whirling snow was virgin white. Yachting-cap white. I
stood on my left foot for maybe five minutes tops. The Boards and A.P.s344334 were three weeks from tomorrow at 0800 in the
C.B.S.345335 auditorium at B.U. I could hear a night-custodial crew rolling a mop-bucket somewhere on another floor.
     This was to be the first A.M. without dawn drills since Interdependence Day, and everybody was invited to sleep in until
breakfast. There were to be no classes all weekend.
     I'd awakened too early yesterday, too. I'd kept seeing Kevin Bain crawling my way in my sleep.
     I straightened up my bed and put the pillow's wet side down and put on clean sweatpants and some socks that didn't smell
foul.
     The closest Mario comes to snoring is a thin sound he makes at the back of his throat. The sound is as if he's drawing out the
word key over and over. It's not an unpleasant sound. I estimated a good 50 cm. of snow on the ground, and it was really coming
down. In the purple half-light the West Courts' nets were half-buried. Their top halves shuddered in a terrible wind. All over the
subdormitory I could hear doors rattling slightly in their frames, as they did only in a bad wind. The wind gave the snowfall a
swirling diagonal aspect. Snow was hitting the exterior of the window with a sandy sound. The basic view outside the window
was that of a briskly shaken paperweight -- the kind with the Xmas diorama and shakeable snow. The grounds' trees, fences and
buildings looked toylike and miniaturized somehow. In fact it was hard to distinguish new snow falling from extant snow simply
whirling around in the wind. It only then occurred to me to wonder whether and where we would play today's exhibition meet.
The Lung wasn't yet up, but the sixteen courts under the Lung wouldn't have accommodated more than an A-only meet anyway. A
kind of cold hope flared in me because I realized this could be cancellation-weather. The backlash of this hope was an even worse
feeling than before: I couldn't remember ever actively hoping not to have to play before. I couldn't remember feeling strongly one
way or the other about playing for quite a long time, in fact.
     Mario and I had begun to make a practice of keeping the phone console's power on at night but turning off the ringer. The
console's digital recorder had a light that pulsed once for each incoming message. The double flash of the recorder's light set up an
interesting interference pattern with the red battery-light on the ceiling's smoke detector, the two lights flashing in synch on every
seventh phone-flash and then moving slowly apart in a visual Doppler. A formula for the temporal relation between two
unsyncopated flashes would translate spatially into the algebraic formula for an ellipse, I could see. Pemulis had poured a terrific
volume of practical pre-Boards math into my head for two weeks, taking his own time and not asking for anything in return, being
almost suspiciously generous about it. Then, since the Wayne debacle, the little tutorials had ceased and Pemulis himself had been
very scarce, twice missing meals and several times taking the truck for long periods without checking with any of the rest of us
about our truck-needs. I didn't even try to factor in the rapid single flash of the phone's power-unit display on the side of the TP;
this would make it some sort calculus thing, and even Pemulis had conceded that I was not hardwired for anything past algebra
and conic sections.
     Every November, between I. Day and the WhataBurger Invitational in Tucson AZ, the Academy holds a semipublic
exhibition meet for the 'benefit' of E.T.A.'s patrons and alumni and friends in the Boston area. The exhibition is followed by a
semiformal cocktail party and dance in the dining hall, where players are required to appear showered and semiformal and
available for social intercourse with patrons. Some of them all but check our teeth. Last year Heath Pearson had appeared for the
gala in a red vest and bellboy's cap and furry tail, carrying a little organ and inviting patrons to grind the organ while he capered
around chattering. C.T. was unamused. The whole Fundraiser is a Charles Tavis innovation. C.T. is far better at public relations
and pump-priming than was Himself. The exhibition and gala are possibly the climax of C.T.'s whole administrative year. He'd
determined that mid-November was the best time for a fundraiser, with the weather not yet bad and the tax-year drawing to a close
but the U.S. holiday season, with its own draining system of demands on goodwill, not yet under way. For the past three fiscal
years, the Fundraiser's proceeds have all but paid for the spring's Southeast tour and the European terre-batu-fest of June-July.
     The exhibition meet involved both genders' A and B teams and was always against some foreign junior squad, to give the
whole Fundraising affair a patriotic kicker. The gentle fiction was that the meet was just one stop for the foreign squad on a whole
vague general U.S. tour, but in truth C.T. usually flew the foreigners in special, and at some expense. We had in the past done
battle with teams from Wales, Belize, the Sudan, and Mozambique. Cynics might point to an absence of tennis juggernauts among
the opponents. Last year's Mozambique thing was a particular turkey-shoot, 70-2, and there'd been an ugly xeno-racist mood
among some of the spectators and patrons, a couple of whom cheerily compared the meet to Mussolini's tanks rolling over
Ethiopian spearchuckers. Y.D.A.U.'s opponents were to be the Quebec Jr. Davis and Jr. Wightman Cup teams, and their arrival
from M.I.A.-D'Orval346336 was keenly anticipated by Struck and Freer, who claimed that the Québecois Jr. Wightman girls were
normally sequestered and saw very few coed venues and would be available for broadening intercultural relations of all kinds.
     It was improbable that anything was going to be landing on time at Logan in this kind of snow, though.
     The wind also produced a desolate moaning in all the ventilation ducts. Mario said 'key' and sometimes 'ski,' drawing them
out. It occurred to me that without some one-hitters to be able to look forward to smoking alone in the tunnel I was waking up
every day feeling as though there was nothing in the day to anticipate or lend anything any meaning. I stood on one foot for a
couple more minutes, spitting into a coffee can I'd left on the floor near the phone from the night before. The implied question,
then, would be whether the Bob Hope had somehow become not just the high-point of the day but its actual meaning. That would
be pretty appalling. The Penn 4 that was my hand-strengthening ball for November was on the sill against the window. I'd neither
carried nor squeezed my ball for several days. No one seemed to have noticed.
     Mario cedes me full control over the phone's ringer and answering machine, since he has trouble holding the receiver and the
only messages he ever gets are In-House ones from the Moms. I enjoyed leaving different outgoing messages on the machine. But
I refused ever to back the messages with music or digitally altered bits of entertainment. None of the E.T.A. phones was video-
capable -- another C.T. decision. Under C.T. the Academy's manual of honor codes, rules, and procedures had almost tripled in
length. Probably our room's best message ever was Ortho Stice doing his deadly C.T.-impression, taking 80 seconds to list
possible reasons why Mario and I couldn't answer the phone and outlining our probable reactions to all possible caller-emotions
provoked my our unavailability. But at 80 seconds the thing wore thin after a while. Our outgoing this week was something like
'This is the disembodied voice of Hal Incandenza, whose body is not now able . . .,' and so on, and then the standard invitation to
leave a message. It was honesty and abstinence week, after all, and this seemed a more truthful message to leave than the
pedestrian 'This is Hal Incandenza . . .,' since the caller would pretty obviously be hearing a digital recording of me rather than me.
This observation owed a debt to Pemulis, who for years and with several different roommates has retained the same recursive
message -- This is Mike Pemulis's answering machine's answering machine; Mike Pemulis's answering machine regrets being
unavailable to take a first-order message for Mike Pemulis, but if you'll leave a second-order message at the sound of the clapping
hand, Mike Pemulis's answering machine will...,' and so on, which has worn so thin that very few of Pemulis's friends or
customers can abide waiting through the tired thing to leave a message, which Pemulis finds congenial, since no really relevant
caller would be fool enough to leave his name on any machine of Pemulis's anyway.