     Given the Faxter's historical proclavity for fraudulent scams, it was amazing to Gately that he didn't ever know how
Fackelmann had been fraudulently getting over on Whitey Sorkin in all kinds of little ways almost from the start, and didn't even
find it out until the not at all small scam with Eighties Bill and Sixties Bob, which took place during the three months Gately was
out on bail Sorkin had generously put up. By this time Gately had fallen in with two lesbian pharmaceutical-cocaine addicts he'd
met at the gym doing upside-down sit-ups from the chin-up bar (the lesbians, not Gately, who was strictly from bench, curl, and
squat). These vigorous girls ran a rather intriguing house-cleaning-and-key-copyíng-and-burglary operation in Peabody and
Wakefield, and Gately had begun working heavy-merchandise-lifting and 4x4-vehicle-promotion for them, serious full-time
burglary, as his taste for even the threat of violence diminished on account of remorse at the bouncer-damage he'd inflicted in that
Danvers bar after just seven Hefenreffers and an innocent comment about the B.-S.H.S.'s Min-utemen's inferiority to the Danvers
H.S. Roughriders; and Gately left more and more of Sorkin's transfer-and-collection work to Fackelmann, who by this time had
gotten back into oral narcotics out of Virus-fears and stopped resisting the sugar-cravings he associated with oral narcs and gotten
so fat and soft his shirtfront looked like an accordion when he sat down to eat Peanut M&M's and nod, and now also to a bad-
news new guy Sorkin had lately befriended and put to work, a fuchsia-haired Harvard Square punk-type kid with a build like a
stump and round black unblinking eyes, an old-fashioned street-junk needle-jockey that went by the moniker Bobby C or just 'C,'
and liked to hurt people, the only I.V.-heroin addict Gately'd come across that actually preferred violence, with no lips at all and
purple hair in three great towering spikes and little bare patches in the hair on his forearms -- from constantly testing the edge on
his boot-knife -- and a leather jacket with way more zippers than anybody could ever need, and a pre-electric earring that hung
way down and was a roaring skull in gold-plate flames.
     Gene Fackelmann had, it turns out, for years been getting fraudulently over on Whitey Sorkin's bookmaking operation in all
sorts of little ways that Gately and Kite (according to Kite) hadn't known about. Usually it was something like Fax taking long-
shot action from marginal bettors not well known to Sorkin and not phoning the action in to Sorkin's secretary, and then, when the
long-shot lost, collecting the skeet plus vig372362 from the bettor and rat-holing it all for himself. It had seemed to Gately after he
found out about it a suicidal-type risk, since if any of these long-shots ever actually won Fackelmann would be responsible for
giving the bettor his winnings from 'Whitey' -- meaning it would be Sorkin that would hear the complaint if Fackelmann didn't
come up with the $ on his own and get it to the bettor -- and the whole crew's pharmacological expenses meant they always
existed on the absolutest margins of liquidity, at least that's what Gately and Kite (according to Kite) had always thought. It wasn't
until Fackelmann's map had been presumably eliminated for keeps and Kite had returned from his long highatus and Gately and
Kite were getting the late Fackelmann's stuff together to divvy up valuables and dump the rest and Gately found, taped to the
underside of Fackelmann's porn-cartridge storage case, over $22,000 in mint-crisp O.N.A.N. currency, not until then that Gately
realized that Fack-elmann had through iron will kept unspent an emergency reserve skeet-payment stake for just such a worst-case
possibility. Gately split this found Fackelmann-$ with Trent Kite, then but went and turned his half of it in to Sorkin, claiming it
was all they'd found. It wasn't that he forked his half over to Sorkin out of any kind of fear -- Sorkin would have regretfully had
the C kid and his Nuck/fag crew demap him, Gately, too, along with Fack-elmann, if he'd thought Gately had been part of Fax's
scam -- but out of guilt over having been clueless about his own fellow Twin Tower screwing Sorkin after Sorkin had been so
neurasthenically over-generous to them both, and because Fackelmann's betrayal had ended up so hurting Sorkin and causing him
so much psychosomatic grief that he'd spent a whole week in bed in Saugus in the dark with Lone Ranger-type sleep shades on,
drinking VO and Cafergot and clutching his traumatized cranium and face, feeling betrayed and abandoned, he'd said, his whole
faith in the human creature shaken, he'd wept to Gately over the cellular phone, after it all came out. Ultimately, Gately gave
Sorkin his half of Fackelmann's secret $ mostly to try and cheer Sorkin up. Let him know somebody cared. He also did it for
Fackelmann's memory, which he was mourning Fax's gruesome death even at the same time he cursed him for a liar and rat-punk.
It was a time of moral confusion for Don G., and his half of the post-mortem $ seemed like the best he could do in terms of like a
gesture. He didn't rat out that Kite had a whole other half, which Kite spent his half of the $ on Grateful Dead bootlegs and a
portable semiconductor-refrigeration unit for his D.E.C. 2100's motherboard that upped his processing capacity to 32 mb2 of
RAM, roughly the same as an InterLace Disseminator-substation or an NNE Bell cellular SWITCHnet; though it wasn't two
months before he'd pawned the D.E.C. and put it in his arm, and had become such a steeply-downhill-type Dilaudid-addict that
when he signed on as Gately's new trusted associate for B&Es after Gately got out of Billerica the once-mighty Kite wasn't even
able to dicky an alarm or shunt a meter, and Gately found himself the brains of the team, which it was a mark of his own high-
angle decline that this fact didn't make him more nervous.
      The R.N. that'd flushed his colon while Gately wept with shame is now back in the room with an M.D. Gately hasn't seen
before. He lies there pinwheel-eyed from pain and efforts to Abide via memory. One eye has some sort of blurry sleep-goop film
in it that won't blink or rub away. The room is filled with mournful gunmetal winter-P.M. light. The M.D. and gorgeous R.N. are
doing something to the room's other bed, attaching something metally complex from out of a big case not unlike a good-table-
silverware case, with molded purple velvet insides for metal rods and two half-circles of steel. The intercom dings. The M.D.'s got
a beeper at his belt, an object with still more unhealthy associations. Gately hasn't exactly been asleep. The heat of his post-op
fever makes his face feel tight, like standing too close to a fire. His right side's settled down to a sick ache like a kicked groin.
Fackelmann's favorite phrase had been 'That's a goddamned lie!' He'd used it in response to just about everything. His mustache
always looked like it was getting ready to crawl off his lip. Gately's always despised facial hair. The former naval M.P. had had a
great big yellow-gray mustache he waxed into two sharp protruding steer-horns. The M.P. was vain about his mustache and spent
giant amounts of time clipping and grooming and waxing it. When the M.P. passed out, Gately used to come quietly up and gently
push the stiff waxed sides of the mustache into crazy canted angles. Sorkin's new third field-operative C'd claimed to collect ears
and to have a collection of ears. Bobby C with his lightless eyes and flat lipless head, like a reptile. The M.D. was one of those
apprentice Residential M.D.s that looked about twelve, scrubbed and groomed to a dull pink shine. He radiated the bustling cheer
they teach M.D.s how to radiate at you. He had a child's haircut, complete with spit-curl, and his thin neck swam in the collar of
his white M.D.-coat, and his coat's pens' pocket-protector and the owlish glasses he kept pushing up, together with the little neck,
gave Gately the sudden insight that most M.D.s and A.D.A.s and P.D./P.O.s and shrinks, the fearsomest authority figures in a drug
addict's life, that these guys came from the pencil-necked ranks of the same weak-chinned wienie kids that drug addicts used to
despise and revile and bully, as kids. The R.N. was so attractive in the gray light and goop-blur it was almost grotesque. Her tits
were such that she had a little cleft of cleavage showing even over her R.N.'s uniform, which was not like a low-neckline thing.
The milky cleavage that suggests tits like two smooth scoops of vanilla ice cream that your healthy-type girls all have probably
got. Gately's forced to confront the fact that he's never once been with a really healthy girl, and not with even so much as a girl of
any kind in sobriety. And then when she reaches way up to unscrew a bolt in some kind of steelish plate on the wall over the
empty bed the like hemline of her uniform retreats up north so that the white stockings' rich violinish curves at the top of the
insides of her legs in the white LISLE are visible in backlit silhouette, and an EMBRASURE of sad windowlight shines through
her legs. The raw healthy sexuality of the whole thing just about makes Gately sick with longing and self-pity, and he wants to
avert his head. The young M.D. is also staring at the lissome stretch and retreating hem, not even pretending to help with the bolt,
missing as he goes to push up the glasses so that he stabs himself in the forehead. The M.D. and R.N. exchange several pieces of
real technical medical language. The M.D. drops his clipboard twice. The R.N. either doesn't notice any of the sexual tension in
the room because she's spent her whole life as the eye of a storm of sexual tension, or else she just pretends not to notice. Gately's
almost positive the M.D.'s jacked off before to the thought of this R.N., and he feels sick that he totally empathizes with the M.D.
It'd be CIRCUMAMBIENT sexual tension, would be the ghostword. Gately'd never even let an unhealthy strung-out-type female
go into the head for at least an hour after he'd taken a dump in there, out of embarrassment, and now this sickening circumambient
creature had with her own Fleet syringe and soft hands summoned a loose pathetic dump from the anus of Bimmy Gately, which
anus she had thus seen close up, producing a dump.
      It doesn't even register on Gately that it's spitting a little goopy sleet outside until he's made himself avert his head from the
window and R.N. The ceiling's throbbing a little, like a dog when it's hot. The R.N. had told him, from behind, her name was
Cathy or Kathy, but Gately wants to think of her as just the R.N. He can smell himself, a smell like sandwich-meat left in the sun,
and feel greasy sweat purling all over his scalp, and his unshaved chin against his throat, and the tube taped into his mouth is tacky
with the scum of sleep. The thin pillow is hot and he has no way to flip it over to the cool side of the pillow. It's like his shoulder's
grown its own testicles and every time his heart beats some very small guy kicked him in them, the testicles. The M.D. sees
Gately's open eyes and tells the nurse the gunshot patient is semiconscious again and is he Q'd for any kind of P.M. med. The
sleetfall is slight; it sounds like somebody's throwing little fistfuls of sand at the window from real far away. The deadly R.N.,
helping the M.D. clamp some kind of weird steel back-braceish thing with what looks like a metal halo they'd put together from
parts out of the big case, clamping the thing to the head of the bed and to little steel plates under the bed's heart monitor -- it looks
sort of like the upper part of an electric chair, he thinks -- the R.N. looks down in mid-stretch and says Hi Mr. Gately and says
Mr. Gately is allergic and doesn't get any meds except antipyretics and Toradol in a drip Dr. Pressburger do you Mr. Gately you
poor brave allergic thing. Her voice is like you can just imagine what she'd sound like getting X'd and really liking it. Gately's
repelled at himself for having taken a dump in front of this kind of R.N. The M.D.'s name had sounded just like 'Pressburger' or
'Priss-burger,' and Gately's now sure the poor yutz'd taken daily ass-kickings from sinister future drug addicts, as a kid. The M.D.'s
perspiring in the ambient sexuality of the R.N. He says (the M.D. does) So what's he intu-bated for if he's conscious and self-
ventilating and on a drip. This is while the M.D.'s trying to screw the metal halo itself to the top of the back-braceish thing with
bolt-head screws, one knee up on the bed and stretching so part of the red soft upper part of his ass is showing over his belt, not
being able to get the thing screwed on, shaking the metal halo like it's its stubborn fault, and even lying there Gately can tell the
guy's turning the bolt-head screws the wrong way. The R.N. comes over and puts a cool soft hand on Gately's forehead in a way
that makes the forehead want to die with shame. What Gately can get from what she says to Dr. Pressburger is that there'd been
concern that Gately might have got a fragment of whatever projectile he got invaded with in, through, or near his lower-something
Trachea, since there'd been trauma to his Something-with-six-syllables-that-started-with-Sterno, she said the radiology results
were indefinite but suspicious, and somebody called Pendleton had wanted a 16 mm. siphuncular nebulizer dispensing 4 ml. of
20% Mucomyst373363 q. 2 h. on the off-chance of hemorrhage or mucoidal flux, like just in case. The parts of this Gately can
follow he doesn't care for one bit. He doesn't want to know his body even fucking has something with six syllables in it. The
horrifying R.N. wipes Gately's face off as best she can with her hand and says she'll try to fit him in for a sponge bath before she
goes off-shift at 1600h., at which Gately goes rigid with dread. The R.N.'s hand smells of Kiss My Face-brand Organic Hand and
Body Lotion, which Pat Montesian also uses. She tells the poor M.D. to let her have a try at the cranial brace, those things are
always a bear to screw in. Her shoes are those subaudible nurses' shoes that make no sound, so it seems like she glides away from
Gately's bed instead of walks away. Her legs aren't visible until she gets a certain ways away. The M.D.'s own shoes have a wet
squeak to the left one. The M.D. looks like he hasn't slept well in about a year. There's a faint vibe of prescription 'drines about the
guy, on Gately's view. He paces squeakily at the foot of the bed watching the R.N. turn the screws the right way and pushes his
owlish glasses up and says that Clifford Pendleton, scratch golfer or no, is a post-traumatic maroon, that nebulized Mucomyst is
for (and here his voice makes it clear he's reciting from memory, like to show off) abnormal, viscid, or inspissated post-traumatic
mucus, not potential hemorrhaging or edema, and that 16 mm. siphuncular intubation itself had been specifically discreditated as
an intratracheal-edema prophylaxis in the second-to-latest issue of Morbid Trauma Quarterly as so diametrically invasive that it
was more apt to exacerbate than to alleviate hemoptysis, according to somebody he calls 'Laird' or 'Layered.' Gately's listening in
with the uncomprehending close attention of like a child whose parents are discussing something adultly complex about child-care
in its presence. The condescension with which Prissburger inserts that hemoptysis means something called 'pertussive
hemorrhage,' like Kathy the R.N. wasn't enough of a pro not to have to insert little technical explanations for, makes Gately sad
for the guy -- it's obvious the guy pathetically thinks this kind of limp condescending shit will impress her. Gately's got to admit
he would have tried to impress her, too, though, if she hadn't met him by holding a kidney-shaped pan under his working anus.
The R.N.'s finishing packing up the parts of the brace thing the M.D. couldn't seem to attach, meanwhile. She was saying the M.D.
seemed awful well-up on methodology for something called a 2R, as they left, and Gately could tell the M.D. couldn't tell she was
being a little sarcastic. The M.D. was struggling to try to carry the thing's case, which Gately judges weighs at most 30 kg. It
occurs to him head-on for the first time that the real reason Stavros L. hired shelter-cleaning guys out of halfway houses was that
he could get away with paying them like bupkis, and that he (Don G.) must surely on some level have known this all along but
been in some kind of Denial about confronting it head-on that he was getting fucked over by Stavros the shoe-freak, and that the
word embrasure had been surely another invasive-wraith ghostword, and then now also that nobody seems to exactly be falling all
over themself to bring the paper and pen it had sure seemed like Joelle van D. had understood Gately's mimed request for, and that
thus maybe Joelle's visit and show-and-tell with the snapshots had been just as much a febrile hallucination as the figuranted
wraith, and that it has stopped spitting sleet but the clouds out there still look like they mean serious business out there over
Brighton-Allston, and that if Joelle v.D.'s intimate visit with the photo album was a hallucination that at least meant it was also a
hallucination she was wearing fucking college-kid Ken Erdedy's sweatpants, and that the low-angled sadness of the cloudy P.M.
light meant it had to be pretty near 1600h. EST so that maybe There By The Grace he could avoid maybe getting an uncontrolled
woodie getting sponged naked by the horrifyingly attractive K/Cathy and but still could get sponged by her linebacker of a
replacement, because the sour meaty smell of himself was grim, only maybe miss the woodie-hazard and get sponged by the big
hairy-moled 1600-2400h. nurse in support-hose to who Gately's anus was a stranger. Plus that 1600h. EST was Spontaneous-
Dissemination time for Mr. Bouncety-Bounce, the mentally ill kiddy-show host Gately's always loved and used to try his best with
Kite and poor old Fackelmann to be home and largely alert for, and that nobody's once offered to click on the HD viewer that
hangs next to a myopic fake-Turner fog-and-boat print on the wall opposite Gately's and the former kid's beds, and that he had no
remote with which to either activate the TP at 1600 or ask somebody else to activate it. That without some kind of notebook and
pencil he couldn't communicate even the basícest question or like concept to anybody -- it was like he was a vegetated
hemorrhagic-stroke-victim. Without a pencil and notebook he couldn't even seem to get across a request for a notebook and
pencil; it was like he was trapped inside his huge chattering head. Unless, his head then points out, Joelle van Dyne's visit had
been real and her understanding of the pen-and-notebook gesture had been real, and but somebody out there in the hallway with a
hat or at the Hospital President's office or at the nurses' station with his innerdicted M.-Hanley-brownies had also innerdicted the
request for writing supplies, at the Finest's request, so he couldn't get his story straight with anybody before they came for him,
that it was like a pre-interrogation softening-up thing, they were leaving him trapped in himself, a figurant, mute and unmoving
and blank like the House's catatonic lady slumped moist and pale in her chair or the Advanced Basics Group's adopted girl's
vegetable-kingdom sister, or the whole catatonic gang over at E.M.P.H.H.'s #5 Shed, silent and dead-faced even when touching a
tree or propped up amid exploding front-lawn firecrackers. Or the wraith's nonexistent kid. It's got to be past 1600h., light-wise,
unless it's the lowering clouds. There's roughly 0% or less visibility now outside the sleet-crusted window. The room's
windowlight is darkening to that Kaopec-tate shade that has always marked the just-pre-sunset time of day that Gately (like most
drug addicts) has always most dreaded, and had always either lowered his helmet and charged extra-murderous at somebody to
block it out (the late-day dread) or else dropped QuoVadis or oral narcotics or turned on Mr. Bouncety-Bounce extra loud or
busied himself in his silly chef's hat in the Ennet House kitchen or made sure he was at a Meeting sitting way up close in nose-
pore range, to block it out (the late-day dread), the gray-light late-afternoon dread, always worse in winter, the dread, in winter's
watered-down light -- just like the secret dread he's always felt whenever everybody happened to ever leave the room and left
him alone in a room, a terrible stomach-sinking dread that probably dates all the way back to being alone in his XXL Dentons and
crib below Herman the Ceiling That Breathed.
      It occurs to Gately that right now's just like when he was a toddler and his Mom and her companion were both passed out or
worse: no matter how frightened or scared he might become he now again cannot get anybody to come or to hear or even know
about it; the discredited tube to prevent vicious or inspired bleeding in his suspicious Trachea has left him completely Alone,
worse off than a toddler that could at least bellow and yowl, rattling the bars of its playpen in terror that nobody tall was in any
shape to hear him. Plus this dreadful time of weak gray late-day light is the time, was the time when the sad and nerdily dressed
wraith appeared yesterday. Assuming that was yesterday. Assuming it was a real wraith. But the wraith, with its chinky Coke and
theories of post-mortem speed, had been able to interface with Gately without aid of speech or gesture or Bic, was why even out
of his mind Gately had had to admit to himself it must have been a delusion, a fever-dream. But he has to admit he'd kind of liked
it. The dialogue. The give-and-take. The way the wraith could seem to get inside him. The way he said Gately's best thoughts were
really communiques from the patient and Abiding dead. Gately wonders if his organic father the ironworker is not now maybe
dead and dropping in and standing very still from time to time for a communique. He felt slightly better. The room's ceiling was
not breathing. It lay flat as a stucco sheet, rippling only slightly with the petroleum-fumes of fever and Gately's own smell. Then
bubbling up out of nowhere again he suddenly confronts deep-focus memories of Gene Fackelmann's final demise and Gately and
Pamela Hoffman-Jeep's involvement in Fackelmann's demise.
      Gately, for several months before he did his State assault-bit, was disastrously involved with one Pamela Hoffman-Jeep, his
first girl ever with a hyphen, a sort of upscale but directionless and not very healthy and pale and incredibly passive Danvers girl
that worked in Purchasing for a hospital-supply co. in Swampscott and was pretty definitely an alcoholic and drank bright drinks
with umbrellas in Rte. 1 clubs in the late P.M. until she swooned and passed out with a loud clunk. That's what she called it --
'swooned.' The swooning and passing out with a loud clunk as her head hit the table was more or less a nightly thing, and Pamela
Hoffman-Jeep fell automatically in love with any man she termed 'chivalrous'374364 enough to carry her out to the parking lot
and drive her home without raping her, which rape of an unconscious head-lolling girl she termed 'Taking Advantage. ' Gately got
introduced to her by Fackelmann, who one time as he came up through a sports bar called the Pourhouse's parking lot to dialogue
with a Sorkin-debtor Gately saw Fackelmann staggering along carrying this unconscious girl to his ride, one big hand quite a bit
farther up her prom-looking taffeta gown than it really needed to be to carry her, and Fackelmann told Gately if Don'd give this
gash a ride home he'd stay and do the collection, which Gately's heart wasn't in collections anymore and he jumped at the trade, as
long as Fackelmann could promise him she could hold her various fluids in the 4x4 he was driving. So it was Fackelmann who
told him, as he put the tiny and limp but still continent body in his arms in the parking lot of the Pourhouse, to watch his personal
six, Gately, and be sure and violate her a little, because this gash here was like one of those South Sea-culture gashes in that if
Gately took her home and she woke up nonviolated she'd be Gately's for life. But Gately obviously had no intention of raping an
unconscious person, much less even putting his hand up the gown of a girl that might lose her fluids any second, and this locked
him into the involvement. Pamela Hoffman-Jeep called Gately her 'Night-Errand' and fell passively in love with his refusal to
Take Advantage. Gene Fackelmann, she confided, was not the gentleman Gately was.
      What helped make the involvement disastrous was that Pamela Hoffman-Jeep was always either so leglessly drunk or so
passively hungover all the time that any sort of sex any time at all with her would have classified as Taking Advantage.
      This girl was the single passivest person Gately ever met. He never once saw P.H.-J. actually get from one spot to another
under her own power. She needed somebody chivalrous to pick her up and carry her and lay her back down 24/7/365, it seemed
like. She was a sort of sexual papoose. She spent most of her life passed out and sleeping. She was a beautiful sleeper, kittenish
and serene, never drooling. She made passivity and unconsciousness look kind of beautiful. Fackelmann called her Death's Poster-
Child. Even at work, at the hospital supply co., Gately imagined her horizontal, curled fetal on something soft, with all the hot
slack facial intensity of a sleeping baby. He imagined her bosses and coworkers all tiptoeing around Purchasing whispering to
each other to not wake her up. She never once rode in the actual front seat of any vehicle he drove her home in. But she also never
threw up or pissed herself or even complained, just smiled and yawned an infant's little milky yawn and snuggled deeper into
whatever Gately had swaddled her in. Gately started doing that thing about yelling they'd been robbed when he carried her into
whatever stripped luxury apt. they were crewing in. P.H.-J. wasn't what you'd call great-looking, but she was incredibly sexy,
Gately felt, because she always managed to look like you'd just X'd her into a state of total unmuscled swoon, lying there
unconscious. Trent Kite told Fackelmann he thought Gately was out of his fucking mind. Fax observed that Kite himself was not
exactly a W. T. Sherman with the ladies, even with coke-whores and strung-out nursing students and dipsoid lounge-hags whose
painted faces swung loose from their heads. Fackelmann claimed to have started a Log just to keep track of Kite's attempted
pickup lines -- surefire lines like e.g. 'You're the second most beautiful woman I've ever seen, the first most beautiful woman I've
ever seen being former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher,' and 'If you came home with me I'm unusually confident that I
could achieve an erection,' and said that if Kite wasn't still cherry at twenty-three and a half it was proof of some kind of divine-
type grace.
      Sometimes Gately would come out of a Demerol-nod and look at pale passive Pamela lying there sleeping beautifully and
undergo a time-lapse clairvoyant thing where he could almost visibly watch her losing her looks through her twenties and her face
starting to slide over off her skull onto the pillow she held like a stuffed toy, becoming a lounge-hag right before his eyes. The
vision aroused more compassion than horror, which Gately never even considered might qualify him as a decent person.
      Gately's two favorite things about Pamela Hoffman-Jeep were: the way she would come out of her stupor and hold her cheek
and laugh hysterically each time Gately carried her across the threshold of some stripped apartment and bellow that they'd been
ripped off; and the way she always wore the long white linen gloves and bare-shoulder taffeta that made her seem like some
upscale North Shore debutante who's had like one too many dippers of country-club punch and is just begging to be Taken
Advantage of by some low-rent guy with a tattoo -- she'd make a sort of languid very-slow-motion bullwhip-gesture with her
hand in the long white glove as she lay wherever Gately had deposited her and simper out with an upscale inflection 'Don Honey,
bring Mommy a highball' (she called a drink a highball), which it turned out was a deadly impression of her own Mom, who it
turned out this lady made Gately's own Mom look like Carry Nation by comparison, lush-wise: the only four times Gately ever
met Mrs. H.-J. were all at E.R.s and sanitaria.
      Gately lies there pop-eyed with guilt and anxiety in the hiss and click of resumed sleet, in the twilit St. E.'s room, next to the
glittering back-brace-and-skull-halo thing clamped exoskeletally to the empty next bed and gleaming dully at selected welds,
Gately trying to Abide, remembering. It had been Pamela Hoffman-Jeep that finally clued Gately in on the little ways Gene
Fackelmann had been historically getting over on Whitey Sorkin, and alerted him to the suicidal creek Fackelmann had got
himself into with a certain mistaken-bet scam that had blown up right in his map. Even Gately had been able to tell something was
the matter: for the last two weeks Fackelmann had been squatting sweatily in a corner of the stripped living room, right outside the
little luxury bedroom Gately and Pamela were lying in, out there squatting over his Sterno cooker and incredible twin hills of sky-
blue Dilaudid and many-hued M&M's, not much speaking or responding or moving or even seeming to cop a nod, just sitting
there hunched and plump and glistening like some sort of cornered toad, his mustache flailing around on his lip. Things would
have had to be bad indeed for Gately ever to try to get coherent data out of P.H.-J. Apparently the deal was that one of the bettors
that bet with Sorkin through Fackelmann was a guy Gately and Fackelmann know only as Eighties Bill, an impeccably groomed
guy that wore red suspenders under snazzy Zegna-brand menswear and tortoiseshell specs and Docksiders, an old-fashioned
corporate take-overer and asset-plunderer, maybe fifty, with an Exchange Place office and a souvenir FREE MILKEN bumper
sticker on his Beamer -- it was a night of many highballs and much papoosing, and Gately had to keep flicking the top of P.H.-J.'s
skull to keep her conscious long enough to free-associate her way through the details -- who was on his fourth marriage to his
third aerobics instructor, and who liked to bet only on Ivy League college hoops, but who when he did so -- bet -- bet amounts so
huge that Fackelmann always had to get Sorkin's pre-approval on the bet and then call Eighties Bill back, and so on.
      But so -- according to Pamela Hoffman-Jeep -- this Eighties Bill, who's a Yale alum and usually unabashedly sentimental
about what Pamela H.-J. laughingly says Fackelmann called his 'almometer' -- well, on this particular time it seems like a little
impeccably groomed birdie has whispered in Eighties Bill's hairy ear, because this one time Eighties Bill wants to put $125K
down on Brown U. against Yale U., i.e. betting against his almome-ter, only he wants (-2) points instead of the even spread Sorkin
and the rest of the Boston books are taking off the Atlantic City line for a spread. And Fackelmann has to cell-phone down to
Saugus to bounce this off Sorkin, except Sorkin's down in the city in Enfield at the National Cranio-Facial Pain Foundation office
getting his weekly UV-bombardment and Cafergot refill from Dr. Robert ('Sixties Bob') Monroe -- the septuagenarian pink-
sunglasses-and-Nehru-jacket-wearing N.C.-F.P.F. ergotic-vascular-headache-treatment specialized, a guy who in yore-days
interned at Sandoz and was one of T. Leary's original circle of mayonnaise-jar acid-droppers at T. Leary's now-legendary house in
West Newton MA, and is now (60s B.) an intimate acquaintance of Kite, because Sixties Bob is an even bigger Grateful Dead
fanatic maybe even than Kite, and sometimes got together with Kite and several other Dead devotees (most of who now had canes
and O2 tanks) and traded historical-souvenir-type tiger's eyes and paisley doublets and tie-dyes and lava lamps and bandannas and
plasma spheres and variegated black-light posters of involuted geometric designs, and argued about which Dead shows and
bootlegs of Dead shows were the greatest of all time in different regards, and just basically had a hell of a time. 60s B., an
inveterate collector and haggling trader of shit, sometimes took Kite along on little expeditions of eclectic and seedy shops for
Dead-related paraphernalia, sometimes even informally fencing stuff for Kite (and so indirectly Gately), covering Kite with $
when Kite's rigid need-schedule didn't permit a more formal and time-consuming fence, Sixties Bob then trading the merchandise
around various seedy locales for 60s-related shit nobody else'd even usually want. A couple times Gately had to actually finger an
ice cube out of a highball and slip it under the shoulderless neckline of P.H.-J.'s prom gown to try and keep her on some kind of
track. Like most incredibly passive people, the girl had a terrible time ever separating details from what was really important to a
story, is why she rarely ever got asked anything. But so the point is that the person that took Fackelmann's call about Eighties
Bill's mammoth Yale-Brown bet wasn't in fact Sorkin but rather Sorkin's secretary, one Gwendine O'Shay, the howitzer-breasted
old Green-Cardless former I.R.A.-moll who'd gotten hit on the head with a truncheon by a godless Belfast Bobbie once too often
back on the Old Sod, and whose skull now was (in Fackelmann's own terminology) soft as puppy-shit in the rain, but who had just
the seedy sort of distracted-grandmotherly air that makes her perfect for clapping her red-knuckled old hands to her cheeks and
squealing as she claimed Mass Lottery lottery winnings whenever Whitey Sorkin and his MA-Statehouse bagmen-cronies arrange
to have a Sorkinite buy a mysteriously winning Mass Lottery ticket from one of the countless convenience stores Sorkin & cronies
own through dummy corporations all up and down the North Shore, and who, because she could not only give what Sorkin
claimed was the only adequate cervical massage west of the Berne Hot Alp Springs Center but also could both word-process a
shocking 110 wpm and wield a shillelagh like nobody's business -- plus had been W. Sorkin's dear late I.R.A.-moll Mum's
Scrabble-pal back in Belfast, on the Old Sod -- served as Whitey's chief administrative aide, manning the cellular phones when
Sorkin was out or indisposed.
      And so but P.H.-J.'s point, which Gately has to just about crack her scalp open flicking out of her: Gwendine O'Shay, familiar
with Eighties Bill and his Y.U. Bulldog sentimentality, plus cranially soft as a fucking grape, O'Shay took Fackelmann's call
wrong, thought Fackelmann said Eighties Bill wanted 125K with (-2) points on Yale instead of (-2) on Brown, put Fackelmann on
Hold and made him listen to Irish Muzak while she put in a call to a Yale Athletic Dept. mole out of Sorkin's Read-Protected
database's MOLE file and learned that the Yale U. Bulldogs' star power forward had been diagnosed with an extremely rare
neurologic disorder called Post-Coital Vestibulitis375365 in which for several hours after intercourse the power forward tended to
suffer such a terrible vertiginous loss of proprioception that he literally couldn't tell his ass from his elbow, much less make an
authoritative move to the bucket. Plus then O'Shay's second call, to Sorkin's Brown U. athletic mole (a locker-room attendant
everybody thinks is deaf), reveals that several of Brown U.'s most sirenish and school-spirited hetero coeds had been recruited,
auditioned, briefed, rehearsed (i.e. 'debriefed,' giggles Pamela Hoffman-Jeep, whose giggles involve the sort of ticklish shoulder-
writhing undulations of a much younger girl getting tickled by an authority figure and pretending not to like it), and stationed at
strategic points --1-95 rest-stops, in the spare-tire compartment at the rear of the Bulldogs' chartered bus, in the evergreen
shrubbery outside the teams' special entrance to the Pizzitola Athl. Center in Providence, in concave recesses along the Pizzitola
tunnels between special entrance and Visitors' locker room, even in a specially enlarged and sensually-appointed locker next to the
power forward's locker in the VLR, all prepared -- like the Brown cheerleaders and Pep Squad, who've been induced to do the
game pantyless, electrolysized and splits-prone to help lend a pyrotechnic glandular atmosphere to the power forward's whole
playing-environment -- prepared to make the penultimate sacrifice for squad, school, and influential members of the Brown
Alumni Bruins Boosters Assoc. So that Gwendine O'Shay then switches back to Fackelmann and OKs the mammoth bet and
point-spread, as like who wouldn't, with that kind of mole-reported fix in the works. Except of course she's taken the wager
backwards, i.e. O'Shay thinks Eighties Bill's now got 125K on Yale coming within two points, while Eighties Bill -- who it turns
out's cast himself as White Knight in bidding for majority control of Providence's Federated Funnel and Cone Corp., O.N.A.N.'s
leading manufacturer of conoid receptacles, with F.F.&C. CEO'd by a prominent Brown alumnus so rabid a Bruins-booster he
actually wears a snarling hollow bear-head to conference games, whose ass Eighties Bill is going about kissing like nobody's
beeswax, P.H.-J. inserts, hinting it was Eighties Bill who'd tipped the Bruins staff off about the power forward's Achilles' vas
deferens -- E.B. quite reasonably believes he's now got Brown within a deuce for 125 el grande's.
      The wrench in the ointment that nobody in Providence has counted on is the picket-and-knuckleduster-wielding appearance of
Brown University's entire Dworkinite Female Objectification Prevention And Protest Phalanx outside the Pizzitola Athl. Center's
main gates right at game-time, two FOPPPs per motorcycle, who blow through the filigreed gates like they were so much wet
Kleenex and storm the arena, plus a division of Brown's pluckier undergraduate N.O.W.s who execute a pincer-movement down
from the cheap seats up top during the first time-out, at the precise moment the Brown cheerleaders' first pyramid-maneuver ends
in a mid-air split that causes the Pizzitola's Scoreboard's scorekeeper to reel backward against his controls and blow out both
HOME's and VISITORS' zeroes, on the board, just as the FOPPPs' unmuffled Hawgs come blatting malevolently down through
the ground-level tunnels and out onto the playing floor; and in the ensuing melee not only are cheerleaders, Pep Squad, and
comely Brown U. sirens all either laid out with picket-signs wielded like shillelaghs or thrown kicking and shrieking over the
burly shoulders of militant FOPPPs and carried off on roaring Hawgs, leaving the Yale power forward's delicate nervous system
intact if overheated; but two Brown U. Bruin starters, a center and a shooting guard -- both too wrung-out and dazed by a
grueling week of comely-siren-auditioning and -rehearsing to have sense enough to run like hell once the melee spills out onto the
Pizzitola hardwood -- are felled, by a FOPPP knuckleduster and a disoriented referee with a martial-arts background,
respectively; and so when the floor is finally cleared and stretchers borne off and the game resumes, Yale U. cleans Brown U.'s
clock by upwards of 20.
      Then so Fackelmann calls up Eighties Bill and arranges to pick up the skeet, which is $137,500 with the vig, which E.B. gives
him in large-denomination pre-O.N.A.N. scrip in a GO BROWN BRUINS gym-bag he'd brought to the game to sit next to the
ursine-headed CEO with and now has less than no use for, but so Fackelmann receives the skeet downtown and blasts up cheesy
Route 1 to Saugus to deliver the skeet and pick up his vig on the vig ($625 U.S.) right away, needing to cop Blues in what's
starting to be the worst way, etc. Plus Fackelmann's figuring on maybe a small bonus or at least some emotional validation from
Sorkin for bringing in such a mammoth and promptly-remitted wager. But, when he gets to the Rte. 1 titty bar at the rear of which
Sorkin has his administrative offices behind an unmarked fire door and all wallpapered in stuff that looks like ersatz wood
panelling, Gwendine O'Shay wordlessly points behind her station at Sorkin's personal office door with a terse gesture Fackelmann
doesn't think fits with the up-beatness of the occasion at all. The door's got a big poster of R. Limbaugh on it, from before the
assassination. Sorkin's in there working spreadsheets with his special monitor-screen-light-filtering goggles on. The goggles'
lenses on their long protruding barrels look like lobsters'
      eyes on stalks. Gately and Fackelmann and Bobby C never spoke to Sorkin until spoken to, not out of henchmanish obsequity
but because they could never tell what Sorkin's cranio-facial vascular condition was or if he could tolerate sound until they
verifiably heard him tolerating his own. (Sound.) So G. Fackelmann waits wordlessly to hand over Eighties Bill's skeet, standing
there tall and soft and palely sweating, the overall shape and color of a peeled boiled egg. When Sorkin hikes an eyebrow at the
GO BRUINS bag and says the knee-slapping hilarity of the joke escapes him, Fack-elmann's mustache positively takes off all over
his upper lip, and he prepares to say what he always says when he's flummoxed, that whatever's being said is with all due respect a
goddamn lie. Sorkin saves his data and pushes his desk chair back so he can reach all the way down to the fireproof drawer. The
goggles are often used in data-processing sweatshops and list for a deuce. Sorkin grunts as he hauls out a huge old Mass Lottery
box for Quik-Pick cards and heaves it onto the desk, where it bulges obscenely, filled with 112.5K U.S. -- there's 112.5 fucking K
in there, all in ones, 125K minus vig, what Sorkin via O'Shay believes to be Eighties Bill's winnings, all in small bills, because
Sorkin's pissed off and can't resist making a little like gesture. Fackelmann doesn't say anything. His mustache goes limp as his
mental machinery starts revving. Sorkin, massaging his temples, staring up at Fackelmann with his goggles like a crab in a tank,
says he supposes he can't blame Fax or O'Shay, that he'd have OK'd the bet himself, what with the neurologic tip on the Yale
forward they had. Who could have foreseen thuggish Femínazis screwing up the ointment. He utters a bit of Gaelic that
Fackelmann doesn't know but assumes to be fatalistical. He peels six C-notes and an O.N.A.N.ite 25-spot off a wad the size of an
artillery shell and pushes them across the metal desk at Fackelmann, his vig on the vig. He says What the fuck (Sorkin does), this
Eighties Bill kid's irrational sentimentalism for Yale will sooner or later catch up with him. Veteran books tend to be statistically
philosophical and patient. Fackelmann doesn't even bother to wonder why Sorkin refers to Eighties Bill as 'kid' when they're both
about the same age. But a high-watt bulb is slowly beginning to incandesce over Fackelmann's moist head. As in the Faxter starts
to conceptualize the overall concept of what must of happened. He still hasn't said anything, Pamela Hoffman-Jeep emphasizes.
Sorkin looks Fackelmann over and asks if he's gained some asymmetrical-type weight, there. Fackelmann's left tit does look
noticeably bigger than his right, under his sport-coat, because of the legal envelope with 137 1000s and one 500 in it, the skeet
from an Eighties Bill who thought he'd lost. Just like Sorkin thought E.B.'d won. The slight high whine in the room that Sorkin
thinks is his ínfernatron disk-drive is really the whine of Fackelmann's high-speed mentation. His mustache roils like a cracked
whip as he works his own internal mental spreadsheet. 25OK in one lumpy sum represented like 375 sky-blue grams of
hydromorphone hydrochloride376366 or like 37,500 10-mg. soluble tablets of the shit, available from a certain rapacious but
discreet Chinatown opiate-dealer who'd only deal synthetic narcs in 100-gram weights -- which all translated, assuming Kite
could be persuaded to pack up his D.E.C. 2100 and move far far away with Fackelmann to help him set up a street-distribution
matrix in some urban market far far away, into close to like let's see carry the one like 1.9 million in street-value, which sum
meant that Fackelmann and to a lesser jr.-partner extent Kite could have their chins on their chests for the rest of their days
without ever having to strip another apt., forge another passport, break another thumb. All if Fackelmann just kept his map shut
about O'Shay's confabulation of Yale/ Brown//Brown/Yale, mumbled something about an I.V.-adulterant causing a sudden and
temporary gigantism in one tit, and blasted out of there straight down Rte. 1 to this one Dr. Wo and Associates, Hung Toy's Cold
Tea Emporium, Chinatown.
     By this time Pamela Hoffman-Jeep had succumbed to the highballs and her own swaddled warmth and was irreversibly
swooned, ice or fillip or no, twitching synaptically and murmuring to somebody named Monty that he was certainly no kind of
gentleman in her book. But Gately could chart the rest of Fackelmann's shit-creek's course for himself. When approached by
Fackelmann with a GO BROWN gym-bag of Dr. Wo's finest wholesale Dilaudid and invited to decamp with him and set up a
distrib-matrix for their own drug-empire far far away, Kite would have staggered back in horror at Fackelmann's obviously not
knowing that the bettor Eighties Bill was in fact none other than the son of Sixties Bob, viz. Whitey Sorkin's personal
migrainologist, who Sorkin trusted and confided in as only a massive I.V.-dose of Cafergot can make you trust and confide, and
whom Sorkin would undoubtedly tell all about the guy's own son's huge win on Yale, and who wasn't like Ward-and-Wally close
with his son, Sixties Bob wasn't, but naturally kept distant paternal tabs on him, and would certainly have known that E.B.'d in
fact bet Brown in an attempt to cozy up to the conic CEO, and so would know that there'd been some kind of mix-up; and also that
(Kite'd still be staggering back in horror as all this added up) plus, even if Sorkin somehow didn't get told of Eighties Bill's loss
and Fackelmann's scam from Sixties Bill, the fact was that Sorkin's newest savagest U.S. muscle, Bobby ('C') C, old-fashioned
smack-addict, copped regular old organic Burmese heroin from this Dr. Wo on a regular basis, and was sure to hear about 300+
grams of wholesale Dilaudid bought by a Fackelmann known to be C's co-employee off Sorkin . . . and thus that Fackelmann, who
when he came to Kite with the proposition was already in possession of a Brown-Booster bag full of 37,500 10-mg. Dilaudids and
minus Sorkin's 25OK -- plus with as Gately later knew only 22K in suicidal-scam-backfire-insurance capital -- was already
dead: Fackelmann was a Dead Man, Kite would have said, staggering back with horror at Fax's idiocy; Kite'd have said he could
smell FackeJmann already biodegrading from here. Dead as a fucking post, he'd have told Fackelmann, already worrying about
being seen sitting there with him in whatever titty bar they were in when Fax hit Kite with the proposal. And Gately, watching
P.H.-J. sleep, could not only imagine but Identify fully with how Fackelmann, on hearing Kite say he could smell him dead and
why, with how Fackelmann, instead of taking his bagful of Blues and gluing on a goatee and immediately fleeing to climes that'd
never even fucking heard of metro Boston's North Shore -- that the Fax-ter'd done what any drug addict in possession of his
Substance would do when faced with fatal news and attendant terror: Facklemann'd made a fucking beeline for their luxury-
stripped home and familiar safe-feeling hearth and had plopped down and immediately fired up the Sterno cooker and cooked up
and tied off and shot up and nailed his chin to his chest and kept it there with staggering quantities of Dilaudid, trying to mentally
blot out the reality of the fact that he was going to get demapped if he didn't take some kind of decisive remedial action at once.
Because, Gately realized even then, this was your drug addict's basic way of dealing with problems, was using the good old
Substance to blot out the problem. Also probably medicating his terror by stuffing himself with Peanut M&M's, which would ex-
plain all the wrappers littering the floor of the corner he hadn't moved from. That thus this is why Fackelmann has been squatting
moist and silent in a corner of the living room right outside this very bedroom here for days; this was why the apparent
contradiction of the staggering amount of Substance Fackelmann had in the gym-bag next to him together with the cornered-toad
look of a man in the great fear one associates with Withdrawal. Charting and thinking, drumming his fingers absently on P.H.-J.'s
unconscious skull, Gately realized he could more than empathize with Fackelmann's flight into Dilaudid and M&M's, but he now
realizes that that was the first time it really ever dawned on him in force that a drug addict was at root a craven and pathetic
creature: a thing that basically hides.
     The most sexual thing Gately ever did with Pamela Hoffman-Jeep was he liked to unwrap her cocoon of blankets and climb
in with her and spoon in real tight, fitting his bulk up close against all her soft concave places, and then go to sleep with his face in
her nape. It bothered Gately that he could empathize with Fackelmann's desire to hide and blot out, but in the retrospect of
memory now it bothers him more that he didn't lie there up next to the comatose girl being bothered for more than a few minutes
before he felt the familiar desire that blots out all bother, and that that night he had unwrapped the cocoon of bedding and arisen so
automatically in service of this desire. And feels the worst of all that he'd lumbered out of the bedroom in just jeans and belt out to
the gloaming living room where Fackelmann was hunched moist and smeary-mouthed in the corner next to a mountain of 10 mg.
Dilaudids and his mixing bowl of distilled water and works-kit and Sterno unit, that Gately had lumbered so automatically out to
Fackelmann under the pretense -- to himself, too, the pretense, was the worst thing -- the pretense that he was just going to check
on poor old Fackelmann, to maybe try and convince him to take some kind of action, go penitent to Sorkin or flee the clime
instead of just hiding there in the corner with his mind in neutral and his chin on his chest and a stalactite of chocolated drool from
his lower lip lengthening. Because he knew that the first thing Fackelmann would do when Gately left P.H.-J. and lumbered out to
the defur-nished living room would be to fumble in his GoreTex works-kit for a new factory-wrapped syringe and invite Gately to
hunker on down and get right with the planet. I.e. ingest some of this mountain of Dilaudid, to keep Fackelmann company. Which
to Gately's shame he did, had done, and no part of the reality of Fackelmann's creek and the need for action had even been brought
up, so intent were they on the Blues' somnolent hum, blotting everything out, while Pamela Hoffman-Jeep lay wrapped tight in the
other room dreaming of damsels and towers -- Gately did, he remembers vividly, he let Fackelmann fix them both up but good,
and told himself he was doing it to keep Fackelmann company, like sitting up with a sick friend, and (maybe worst) believed it
was true.
     Little entr'actes of feverish dreams punctuate memories and being conscious, like. He dreams he's riding due north on a bus
the same color as its own exhaust, passing again and again the same gutted cottages and expanse of heaving sea, weeping. The
dream goes on and on, without any kind of resolution or arrival, and he weeps and sweats as he lies there, stuck in it. Gately
comes sharply around when he feels the little rough tongue on his forehead -- not unlike Nimitz the M.P.'s little pet kitten's
hesitant tongue, when the M.P. had still had the kitten, before the mysterious period when the kitten disappeared and the garbage
disposal wouldn't run right for days and the M.P. sat hungover with his notebook at the kitchen table with his blond head in his
hands, just sat there for several days, and Gately's Mom went around pale as hell and wouldn't go near the kitchen sink for days,
and rushed to the bathroom when Gately finally asked what was the deal with the garbage disposal and where was Nimitz. When
Gately gets his eyelids unstuck, though, the tongue is not even close to being Nimitz's. The wraith is back, right by the bed,
dressed like before and blurred at the edges in the hat-shadowed spill of hallway-light, and except now with him is another,
younger, way more physically fit wraith in kind of faggy biking shorts and a U.S. tank top who's leaning way over Gately's railing
and ... fucking licking Gately's forehead with a rough little tongue, and as Gately reflexively strikes out at the guy's map -- no
man put his tongue on D. W. Gately and lived -- he has just enough time to realize the wraith's breath has no warmth to it, or
smell, before both wraiths vanish and a blue forked bolt of pain from his sudden striking-out sends him back against his hot pillow
with an arched spine and a tube-impeded scream, his eyes rolling back into the dove-colored light of whatever isn't quite sleep.
     His fever is way worse, and his little snatches of dreams have a dismantled cubist aspect he associates in memory with
childhood flu. He dreams he looks in a mirror and sees nothing and keeps trying to clean the mirror with his sleeve. One dream
consists only of the color blue, too vivid, like the blue of a pool. An unpleasant smell keeps coming up his throat. He's both in a
bag and holding a bag. Visitors flit in and out, but never Ferocious Francis or Joelle van D. He dreams there's people in his room
but he's not one of them. He dreams he's with a very sad kid and they're in a graveyard digging some dead guy's head up and it's
really important, like Continental-Emergency important, and Gately's the best digger but he's wicked hungry, like irresistibly
hungry, and he's eating with both hands out of huge economy-size bags of corporate snacks so he can't really dig, while it gets
later and later and the sad kid is trying to scream at Gately that the important thing was buried in the guy's head and to divert the
Continental Emergency to start digging the guy's head up before it's too late, but the kid moves his mouth but nothing comes out,
and Joelle van D. appears with wings and no underwear and asks if they knew him, the dead guy with the head, and Gately starts
talking about knowing him even though deep down he feels panic because he's got no idea who they're talking about, while the
sad kid holds something terrible up by the hair and makes the face of somebody shouting in panic: Too Late.