     11 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     1810h.,133 kids and thirteen assorted staff sitting down at suppertime, the E.T.A. dining hall taking most of the first floor of
West House, a sort of airy atrium-like commons, broad and knotty-pine-panelled, the east wall hugely fenestrated and columns
running the length of the room at center, with ceiling fans high overhead circulating the rich and slightly sour smell of bulk-
prepared food, the oceanic sound of 20 different tables' conversation, the flat clink of utensils on plates, much chewing, the clank
and tinkle of the dishwasher's conveyor belt behind the tray-bus window with its sign saying YR MOTHER DOES NOT LIVE
HERE; BUS YR TRAY, the muffled shouts of kitchen workers in steam. The top upperclassmen get the best table, an unspoken
tradition, the one nearest the gas fireplace in winter and the AC venting in July, the one whose chairs' legs are all pretty much
even, both seats and backs with thin corduroy cushions in E.T.A. red and gray. The prorectors have their own permanent table
near the carbs bar; the Syrian Satelliter and enormous peasant-skirted Moment soft-profiler are with them.
     The players can all do some very serious eating, some of them still in sweaty sweats with salt-stiff hair, too hungry after
three-set P.M.s to shower before refueling. Coed tables are quietly discouraged. The Boys 18's and the cream of the 16's are all at
the best table. Ortho ('The Darkness') Stice, E.T.A.'s 16's A-l, has just this P.M. gone three sets with Hal Incandenza, seventeen,
E.T.A.'s second-best overall boy, taking Hal all the way to 7-5 in the third in an off-record nonchallenge exhibitionish engagement
Schtitt had them play out on the West Courts that afternoon for reasons no one has yet pinned down. The match's audience had
grown steadily as other challenges got done and people came up from the weight room and showers. News that Stice had very
nearly beaten an Inc nobody but John Wayne has been able to beat has made its figure-eight way around the tables and serving
line and salad bar, and lots of younger kids keep looking to the best table and Stice, sixteen, crew-cutted and still in his black Fila
sweats with no shirt under the unzipped top, assembling a complex sandwich on his plate, and they let their eyes widen and
postures sag to communicate awe: R.H.I.P.
      Stice, oblivious, bites into his sandwich like it's the wrist of an assailant. The only sound at the table for the first few minutes
is of forkwork and mastication and the slight gasping sounds of people trying to breathe while they eat. You rarely speak for the
first few minutes here, eating. Supper is deadly-serious. Some of the kids even start in on their trays while still in line at the milk
dispenser. Now Coyle bites in. Wayne has made his entree into a sandwich and lowers and bites. Keith Freer's eyes are half closed
as his jaw muscles bulge and slacken. Some of the players' inclined heads are hard to see over the height of their food. Struck and
Schacht, side by side, bite in sync and chew. The only one at the table not eating like a refugee is Trevor Axford, who as a small
child back in Short Beach CT once fell off his bike onto his head and received a tiny lesion-type brain injury after which all food
everywhere tastes horrible to him. His clearest explanation of the way food tastes to him is that it tastes the way vomit smells. He's
discouraged from speaking at meals and holds his nose while he eats and eats with the neutral joyless expression of somebody
dispensing fuel into his car. Hal Incandenza dismantles the stelliform-mold shape E.T.A. mashed potatoes come in, mixing baby-
boileds in with the mashed. Petropolis Kahn and Eliot Kornspan eat with such horrible P.O.W.ish gusto that nobody else will sit
with them -- they're by themselves at a small table behind Schacht and Struck, utensils glittering amid a kind of fine mist or
spray. Jim Troeltsch keeps holding a clear tumbler of milk up to the ceiling's full-spectrum lights and swirling the milk around in
the light, looking at it. Pemulis chews with his mouth open, producing moist noises, a habit so family-of-origin-ingrained no
amount of peer pressure can break him of it.
      Eventually The Darkness clears his throat to speak. In the showers he'd gotten up to the middle of an Xmas story about one of
his parents' epic rows. His parents had met and fallen in love in a Country/Western bar in Partridge KS -- just outside Liberal KS
on the Oklahoma border -- met and fallen in star-crossed love in a bar playing this popular Kansas C/W-bar-game where they put
their bare forearms together and laid a lit cigarette in the little valley between the two forearms' flesh and kept it there till one of
them finally jerked their arm away and reeled away holding their arm. Mr. and Mrs. Stice each discovered somebody else that
wouldn't jerk away and reel away, Stice explained. Their forearms were still to this day covered with little white slugs of burn-
scar. They'd toppled like pines for each other from the git-go, Stice explained. They'd been divorced and remarried four or five
times, depending on how you defined certain juris-prudential precepts. When they were on good domestic terms they stayed in
their bedroom for days of squeaking springs with the door locked except for brief sallies out for Beefeater gin and Chinese take-
out in little white cardboard pails with wire handles, with the Stice children wandering ghostlike through the clapboard house in
sagging diapers or woolen underwear subsisting on potato chips out of econobags bigger than most of them were, the Stice kids.
The kids did somewhat physically better during periods of nuptial strife, when a stony-faced Mr. Stice slammed the kitchen door
and went off daily to sell crop insurance while Mrs. Stice -- whom both Mr.
      Stice and The Darkness called 'The Bride' -- while The Bride spent all day and evening cooking intricate multicourse meals
she'd feed bits of to The Brood (Stice refers to both himself and his six siblings as 'The Brood') and then keep warm in quietly
rattling-lidded pots and then hurl at the kitchen walls when Mr. Stice came home smelling of gin and of cigarette-brands and
toilet-eau not The Bride's own. Ortho Stice loves his folks to distraction, but not blindly, and every holiday home to Partridge KS
he memorizes highlights of their connubial battles so he can regale the E.T.A. upperclass-men with them, mostly at meals, after
the initial forkwork and gasping have died down and people have returned to sufficient levels of blood-sugar and awareness of
their surroundings to be regaled. Some of them listen, drifting in and out. Troeltsch and Pemulis are arguing about whether
E.T.A.'s kitchen staff has started trying to slip them powdered milk on the sly. Freer and Wayne are still hunched and chewing,
very intent. Hal's making some sort of structure out of his food. Struck keeps both elbows on the table at all times and utensils in
his clenched fists like a parody of a man eating. Pemulis always listens to Stice's tales, often repeating little phrases, shaking his
head in admiration.
      'I'm just going to go up and refuse to eat one more thing with a utensil that's gone down the disposal.' Schacht is holding up a
fork with crazy tines. 'Just look at it. Who could eat with something like that.'
      'The old man is a son of a bitch that is cool under fire, in terms of The Bride,' Stice says, leaning in to bite and chew. The
tendency at E.T.A. is to take the entree and unless it's a wet entree to take wheat bread and make it a sandwich, for the extra carbs.
It's like Pemulis can't really taste his food unless he mashes it against his palate. The Academy's wheat bread is bicycled in by
guys in Birkenstock sandals from Bread & Circus Quality Provisions in Cambridge, because it's got to be not only sugarless but
low in glutens, which Tavis and Schtitt believe promote torpor and excess mucus. Axford, who lost to Tall Paul Shaw in straight
sets and if he loses to him again tomorrow goes down to #5-A, stares stonily into space, his motions less like somebody eating
than like somebody miming eating. Hal's made an intricate fortification-structure of his food, complete with turrets and archer-
slits, and even though he's not much eating or drinking his six cranberry juices he keeps swallowing a lot, studying his structure.
As the eating slows down at the best table the more observant of them give Hal and Ax-ford tiny sideways looks, the players'
different CPUs humming through Decision Trees on whether a still-publicly-undiscussed but much-rumored showdown with Dr.
Tavis and the O.N.A.N.T.A. urology guy, plus now this loss to Shaw and near-loss to Ortho Stice, might not have shaken Inc and
Axhandle along some psychic competitive fault-line, different guys with different rankings calculating the permuted advantages to
themselves of Hal and Axford having a deeply distracted and anxious week. Though Michael Pemulis, the other rumored
O.N.A.N.T.A. urine-scannee, ignores Axford's expression and Hal's excessive swallowing altogether, though possibly studiously
ignoring them, staring meditatively at the squeegees <footnote>259</footnote> taken down off the wall and leaning against the unlit fireplace, fingers
steepled before his lips, hearing out Troeltsch, who blows his nose with one hand and rattles his tumbler of half-drunk milk on the
tabletop with the other.
      Pemulis shakes his head very seriously at Troeltsch. 'Not a chance, brother.'
      'I'm telling you man this milk is powdered.' Troeltsch peering down into the tumbler, probing the milk's surface with a thick
finger. 'Me I can tell from powdered. I have growing-up domestic confirmed traumas around powdered. The day Mother
announced milk was too heavy to keep lugging back from the store and switched to powdered, with Father's OK. Father knuckling
under like Roosevelt at Yalta. My big sister ran away from home, and the rest of us were traumatized around it, this switch to
powdered, which is unmistakable if you know what to look for.'
     Freer makes a snoring noise.
     'And do I ever know what to look for, to verify.' Troeltsch is hoarse, and one of these people who speaks to more than one
person at once by looking from one person to one person to one person; he's not a born public speaker. 'Namely your telltale
residues along the sides of the glass, when swished.' W/ great flourished swishings of the milk.
     'Except Troeltsch you can turn around and see them fucking loading the bags into the dispenser every twenty minutes. Bags
of milk. That say MILK on them, the bags. Liquid, sloshy, hard to handle. It's milk.'
     'You see bags, you see the word MILK. They're counting on the packaging. Image management. Sensory management.'
Responding to Pemulis but looking at Struck. 'Part of some larger overall kertwang. Possible punishment for the Eschaton thing.'
Eyes going briefly to Hal. 'Covert vitamins possibly next. Let's not even mention saltpeter. Put aside deductions from bags a
second. I'm sticking to facts. Fact: this is verifiably powdered milk.'
     'You're saying they mix powdered milk and then try and pour it into milk-bags, all to allay?'
     Schacht clears his mouth and swallows mightily. 'Tavis can't even regrout tile in the locker room without calling a
Community Meeting or appointing a committee. The Regrouting Committee's been dragging along since May. Suddenly they're
pulling secret 03 00 milk-switches ? It doesn't ring true, Jim.'
     'And Troeltsch has a cold, he said,' Freer observes, indicating the little bottle of Seldane next to Troeltsch's squeezing-ball, by
his plate. 'You can't even taste, Troeltsch, if you got a real cold.'
     'Trevor should have the cold, Axhandle, no?' Schacht says, tapping carminative capsules onto his palm from his own amber
bottle.
     With supper they can choose milk or else cranberry juice, that most carbcaloric of juices, which froths redly in its own clear
dispenser by the salad bar. The milk dispenser stands alone against the west wall, a big huge 24-liter three-bagger, the milk
inserted in ovaloid mammarial bags into its refrigerated cabinet of brushed steel, with three receptacles for tumblers and three
levers for controlled dispensing. There's two levers for skim and one for supposedly high-lecithin chocolate skim, which every
new E.T.A. tries exactly once and discovers tastes like skim with a brown crayon melted into it. There's a sign in a kitchen-
staffer's crude black block caps taped to the dispenser's facade that says MILK IS FILLING; DRINK WHAT YOU TAKE. The
sign used to say MILK IS FILLING, DRINK WHAT YOU TAKE until the comma was semicolonized by the insertion of a blue
dot by a fairly obvious person. <footnote>260</footnote> The line for seconds on entrees now stretches out past the milk dispenser. The best thing
about satiation and slowing down on the eating is leaning back and feeling autolysis start in on what you ate and tending to your
teeth while you gaze around the airy room at crowds and clumps of kids, observing behaviors and pathologies with a clear and
sated head. The littler kids running in tight circles trying to follow the shadow of the ceiling fan. Girls laughing crumpled against
their seatmates' shoulders. People protecting their plates. The blurred sexuality and indecisive postures of puberty. Two marginal
male 16's have their heads directly in the bowls in the salad bar, and some of the surrounding females are commenting. Different
kids are illustrating points with different gestures. John Wayne and Keith Freer stroll purposefully through the serpentine crowd
and up to the front of the Seconds line and insert themselves in front of a little boy who's tearing at a held bagel with great violent
movements of head and neck. The 18-A's get free buttinskis: R.H.I, literal P., at E.T.A. Jim Struck spears one of the cherry
tomatoes out of Hal's salad bowl with a savage fork-gesture; Hal makes no comment.
     Troeltsch has run his thick finger around the inside of the tumbler and is holding the digit out at different guys around the
table. 'Note a certain bluish cast to it. Traces and remains. Suspicious foam. Minute grains of not quite altogether dissolved
particulate powdered stuff. Powdered always leaves its telltale signs.'
     'Your fucking head is a minute grain, Troeltsch.'
     'Put that finger away.'
     'Tryna eat here.'
     'Paranoia,' Pemulis says, scooping up stray peas with the flat of his knife.
     'Base tuition of 21,700 scooters, not counting,' Troeltsch says, moving the finger back and forth in the air -- the stuff drying
on the finger does not, admittedly, exactly look appetite-whetting -- 'and yet let's note how the Lung's not up in spite of rampant
weather and Achilles'-complaints, and today's lunch a total déjà vu of yesterday's lunch, and the bread and bagels they've started
getting us Day-Old with the yellow stickers on the bags, and there's dinette sets in the tunnels and acoustic tiles in the halls and
lawn-mowers in the kitchen and tripods in the grass and squeegees on the wall and Stice's bed moves around, and there's a ball
machine in the girls' lockers, Longley reports, that for this kind of tuition none of this stuff the staff can get around to cleaning up
bef--'
     Stice's head has jerked up, a trace of mashed potato on his nose. 'Who says my bed moves? How's it you know anything about
any beds moving?'
     But it's true. The Husky VI tripod of Mario's near-fatal encounter with the U.S.S. Millicent Kent was only the beginning.
Starting with the mysterious and continuing fall of acoustic ceiling-tiles from their places in the subdorms' drop ceilings,
inanimate objects have either been moved into or just out of nowhere appearing in wildly inappropriate places around E.T.A. for
the past couple months in a steadily accelerating and troubling cycle. Last week a grounds-crew lawnmower sitting clean and
silent and somehow menacing in the middle of the dawn kitchen gave Mrs. Clarke the fantods and resulted in Eggplant Parmesan
for two suppers in a row, which sent shock waves. Yesterday A.M. there'd been a cannonesque ball machine -- no small feat to
move around anywhere or get through doors -- in the Females' Sauna, which machine some of the upperclass girls had found and
screamed at when they went in for the dawn saunas that help alleviate some vague female-type problem that none of the guys
quite fathom. And two black girls on the breakfast crew reportedly found a set of squeegees on the dining hall's north wall, several
meters up and hung crossed in a kind of saltire, placed there by parties unknown. F. D. V. Harde's A.M. groundsmen reportedly
took the things down, and now they're leaning by the fireplace. The inappropriate found objects have had a tektitic and sinister
aspect: none of the cheery odor of regular pranksterism; they're not funny. To varying degrees they've given everyone the fantods.
Mrs. Clarke had taken the morning off again, was why the repeat-lunch. Stice's eyes are back on his plate, which is nearly clean.
Unmentioned is the fact that Schacht and Tall Paul Shaw at lunch went over the whole part of the north wall the black girls said
they found the squeegees on and could find neither nails nor holes from nails, as in no visible means of attachment. The whole
thing's been studiously not talked about, adding to everybody's discomfort at Troeltsch's hoarse complaints about tuition, which
vary in specifics but are otherwise routine.
      'And then now the ultimate dietary cluster-fuck: attempted powdered milk.'
      'Trying to foist it you're saying.'
      'I'm saying and look at us and what do we do?'
      'Fake a cold and stay in bed playing sportscaster with the TP, in protest?' says Pemulis.
      Troeltsch uses the bottle of Seldane to point for emphasis. 'We don't want to hear about it. We look the other way with our
heads in the sand.'
      'Sounds fucking painful.'
      'Go find some fucking synonyms for beat.'
      Slice swallows hugely: 'Never open your eyes underground: my old man's dictum.'
      'And so we distract ourselves,' Troeltsch says; 'we yuck it up.'
      Pemulis makes a k-sound. 'Here's the real question: how dumb is Troeltsch?'
      'Troeltsch's so dumb he thinks a manila folder's a Filipino contortionist.'
      'Troeltsch, who's buried in Grant's Tomb?'
      Kyle Coyle says surely they've all heard the one about what do Canadian girls put behind their ears to attract boys. John
Wayne gives him not a look. Wayne's peering inside his own tumbler, where there does seem to be some sort of residue. There are
fragments of lettuce in his eyelashes. Ortho Stice's cheeks are ballooned with food, his eyes on his own salad's remains, expression
abstract and furrowed. A terrible kind of community energy in the whole dining hall, a kind of anxious sound-carpet under the
surf of voices and the tinkle of flatware, and The Darkness is at some vague center of this energy, somehow, you can feel. Neither
Wayne nor Hal's been approachable all fall, on-court. Kids at other tables say low-toned things to their seatmates, and then the
seatmate looks covertly over at Stice's table. Forehead purply crumpled, Slice stares hard at his salad and tries to block input from
his phenomenal peripheral vision. Two 14's are contending over toast. Petropolis Kahn is preparing to catapult a chickpea at
somebody. Jim Struck points out Bridgette Boone and the U.S.S. Millicent Kent returning for what Struck counts as Fourths, and
Stice blocks the sight out. The sad pretty sunset out over the hilltops of Newton cannot be seen because the room's big windows
face east, out over the hillside and the Enfield Marine complex that the Academy has bathed in shadow, so E.M.'s porch lights are
already on, and tall cubist bits of the old metropolis beyond that, east, with shadows encroaching. The afternoon just past was a
glory, scrubbed and cool and windless, cloud-free, the sun a disk, the sky a dome, soaked in light, even the northern horizons bell-
clear against a faint green-yellow cast. Schacht has about eight amber bottles of various medicines for his Crohn's Disease, and a
whole ritual of administration. A couple of the black girls who work kitchen and custodial day-shifts can be seen against the
shadowy tree-line, making their way down the steep hillside's unauthorized path back down to the halfway-house thing for
wretched people who come up here to work short-time. The girls' bright cheap jackets are vivid in the shadow and trees' tangle.
The girls are having to hold hands against the grade, walking sideways and digging heavily in at each step. The black girl Clenette
Hal had read fear in as she left C.T.'s office with his litter now has a bulging backpack on her back, as in bulging maybe with
dumpster-pilferage, <footnote>261</footnote> her arms strung way out between the other black girl Didi and the trees she grabs and digging in
sideways with each step, the hesitancy of steep dark slopes, rooty and shot through with briers.
      A girl with bangs rises and tings her tumbler with a spoon to make an announcement; nobody pays any attention.
      Now Kahn's by custom allowed to come over and sit with them at the best table, post-prandially.
      Wayne and Stice both shiver at the same time as the overhead lighting suddenly becomes the big room's primary light.
      There's a brief and sort of ignorant discussion on why girls who hit backhands one-handed seem prone to having different-
sized breasts. Hal recalls his brother's late-in-college thing of seeing if he could take a girl out somewhere public and then meet
and have covert sex with a whole different girl while still out with the first girl. This was after the girl Orin had been wildly in
love with and Himself had compulsively used in films had been disfigured. Orin kept a record of Subjects that was sort of a cross
between a chart and a journal. He used to come home and leave it out just pleading to be read. This was back when his brother
Orin needed only to have sexual intercourse with them instead of getting them to fall so terribly in love with him they'd never be
able to want anyone else. He'd taken obscure massage and psych courses and read tantric books whose illustrations seemed about
as sexy to Hal as Twister.
      Coyle says 'Their ankles'; everybody ignores him. Wayne's already left the table.
      Little 14-C Bernard Makulic, two tables over from the milk dispenser and constitutionally delicate and not long for E.T.A.,
throws up in a silky tan cataract onto the floor by his chair, and there is the shriek of the feet of other chairs being scooted in a star
pattern away from the table, and the protracted vowels of repulsed children.
      Struck, Pemulis, Schacht and Freer have all had sexual intercourse. Coyle's a probable, but reticent. Axford has trouble even
publicly showering, much less submitting nude to a female's inspection. Hal is maybe the one male E.T.A. for whom lifetime
virginity is a conscious goal. He sort of feels like O.'s having enough acrobatic coitus for all three of them. Freer even has a like
souvenir-colposcope bolted to the inside of his locker door where a pin-up'd have been in days of yore, and Pemulis and Struck
have allegedly patronized the Combat Zone after the fiscally pressed city'd buckled and rehung the Combat Zone's red lights, east
of the Common. But Jim Troeltsch and sex: no way. And with Wayne and Stice the question seems somehow beside the point.
Hal's mouth feels like it's overflowing with spit. He should by all rights have lost to Stice today, and he knows it. Stice was in
physical control of the third set. Stice choked it away only because he didn't believe he could beat Hal yet, deep down, since Hal's
competitive explosion. But the crisis of faith that cost Stice the match had concerned a different Hal, Hal can tell. It's now a whole
new Hal, a Hal who does not get high, or hide, a Hal who in 29 days is going to hand his own personal urine over to authority
figures with a wide smile and exemplary posture and not a secretive thought in his head. No one except Pemulis and Axford know
it's a whole new and chemical-free Hal who should by all rights have lost to a 16-year-old out there in public on what ended up a
gorgeous NNE autumn day.
      Wayne had gotten up and bussed his tray in the middle of the jejune breast thing. Ortho ('The Darkness') Stice is still staring
into his salad. If you could open Stice's head you'd see a wheel inside another wheel, gears and cogs being widgeted into place.
Stice has a secret suspicion about a secret that has more to do with the actual table than with the people at the table. A lot of the
guys interpret his intense distraction as Stice's still being in the magic can't-miss Zone from this p.m.'s match.
     'The idea being that Nuck girls can only attract guys by being really easy to X, is the joke,' Coyle says into the noise.
     Then there's a brief rippling lull in the whole dining hall as little Evan Ingersoll emerges from the Entree Line's end on
crutches, his cast new and sailor-hat-white, unsigned, prorector Tony Nwangi behind him with his hatchet-face stony, carrying the
kid's tray for him. The hall's unease is almost visible, a corona around Ingersoll and the ruptured patellar tendon that'll cost him at
least six months of competitive development. Penn, whose femoral fracture'll cost him a year, isn't even back yet from St. E.'s
orthopedic. But at least Ingersoll's back. Hal gets up to go over, Troeltsch rising to accompany him after a long look at Trevor
Axford, Ingersoll's B.B. of record, who's sitting in his chair with his eyes shut tight, unable to make any sort of conciliatory
gesture. A match-sore Hal not limping but stiff-legged and shoulders slightly rolling as he and Troeltsch move serpentine around
tables, steering way clear of the custodian and dull-steel bucket on rollers and the mop spreading and diluting Makulic's chyme
out in a thinning circle that clears three tables, which Hal and Troeltsch avoid with practiced curves around tables whose layout
they all know well, Hal to say Hey and How's the Limb, Troeltsch to say Hey and be basically relieved he's away from a
discussion of females as sexual objects. Troeltsch's never come close to even dating anybody. Some guys here never do. It's the
same at all the academies, this asexual contingent. Some junior players don't have the emotional juice left over after tennis to face
what dating requires. Bold nerveless guys on the court who go slack and pale at the thought of approaching a female in any social
context. Certain things not only can't be taught but can be retarded by other stuff that can be taught. The whole Tavis/Schtitt pro-
gram here is supposedly a progression toward self-forgetting; some find the whole girl-issue thing brings them face to face with
something in themselves they need to believe they've left far behind in order to hang in and develop. Troeltsch, Shaw, Axford: any
sort of sexual tension makes them feel like they need more oxygen than is available right then. A couple of the girls at E.T.A. are
kind of slutty, and some of the more aggressive Freer-type guys can break some of the girls down and get them to have sex --
there's nothing if not time and proximity here. But E.T.A. is mostly a comparatively unsexual place, maybe almost surprisingly so,
considering the constant roar and gurgle here of adolescent glands, the emphasis on physicality, the fears of mediocrity, the back-
and-forth struggles with ego, the loneliness and close proximity. There's scattered homosexuality, much of it emotional and
unconsummated. Keith Freer's pet theory is that the bulk of E.T.A. females are nascent lesbians who don't know it yet. That like
any serious female athletes they're basically vigorously male inside, and so Sapphic-tending. The ones that get to the
W.T.A. <footnote>262</footnote> Show'll probably be the only ones who find out that they are, he believes -- dykes that is. The rest will marry and
spend a lifetime by the club pool wondering why the hair on their husbands' backs makes them shudder. E.g. the U.S.S. Millicent
Kent, sixteen and phenomenal on the incline bench-press, with breasts like artillery and a butt like two bulldogs in a bag (Stice's
term, which caught on), already looks like a Penal Matron, Freer likes to observe. And no one likes the fact that Carol Spodek's
carried and prized the same single large-grip Donnay stick for going on five straight years.
     Ortho Stice of southwest Kansas looks briefly up at Hal and Troeltsch's departure before returning his attention to a certain
cherry tomato perched somehow halfway up the shallow incline of his salad bowl. It's possible that the cherry tomato is attached
halfway up the incline by an adhesive bit of yogurt dressing rather than just sitting there defying gravity on its own. Stice doesn't
use a finger to move the tomato and check this. He's using only his concentrated will. He's trying to will the cherry tomato to roll
of its own objectile power down the incline and into the bowl's center. He stares at the cherry tomato with enormous
concentration, chewing his tri-level skinless-chicken-fillet sandwich. The chewing makes overlapping plates of muscle all the way
up one side of his face and crew-cut scalp bulge and roll. He's trying to flex some kind of psychic muscle he's not sure he even
has. The crew cut lends his head an anvil-like aspect. Complete concentration makes his round red fleshy face look crumpled.
Stice is one of those athletes whose body you know is an unearned divine gift because its conjunction with his face is so
incongruous. He resembles a poorly spliced photo, some superhuman cardboard persona with a hole for your human face. A
beautiful sports body, lithe and tapered and sleekly muscled, smooth -- like a Polycleitos body, Hermes or Theseus before his
trials -- on whose graceful neck sits the face of a ravaged Winston Churchill, broad and slab-featured, swart, fleshy, large-pored,
with a mottled forehead under the crew cut's V-shaped hairline, and eye-pouches, and jowls that hang and whenever he moves
suddenly or lithely make a sort of meaty staccato sound like a wet dog shaking itself dry. Tony Nwangi is saying something
acerbic to Hal, who looks like he's kneeling penitent before Ingersoll, everyone at the surrounding tables inclined very subtly
away from Hal. Troeltsch is signing Ingersoll's cast as he speaks into his fist. Off the court, Ortho Slice's flattop crew cut and
penchant for cuff-rolled bluejeans and button-down short-sleeves with a checkered pattern are strictly from hick. The facial
scrunching that attends concentration adds crevices and seams and an uneven flush to the bulldog face. His cheeks are ballooned
with food as he stares at the perched cherry tomato, trying to respect this object with all his might. Summoning the sort of
coercive reverence he'd felt this P.M. as several balls' sudden anomalous swerves against wind and their own vectors half con-
vinced Stice they'd become sensitive to his inner will, at crucial times. He'd mishit one cross-court volley and seen the thing head
for an area wide even of the doubles sideline and then curve like a drenched spitter back to land just inside the singles corner, and
this at a time when the grounds' pines behind Hal Incandenza were breeze-leaning in the exact opposite direction. Hal had given
Stice a little bit of a look on that one. Stice couldn't finally tell whether Hal noticed anything amiss in the mysterious curves and
downdrafts that seemed to favor The Darkness alone; Hal had played with the wide-eyed but unfocused look of a tennis player
right on the verge of falling apart out there, and yet strangely affectless, as if deep inside some well of his own private troubles;
and Stice wills himself again not to wonder what had passed with the Headmaster and the O.N.A.N.T.A. urologist, whose lab-
equipped van's unscheduled appearance in the E.T.A. parking lot yesterday afternoon had caused a tsunami of panic just before
supper, especially since Pemulis and his supply of lab-ready Visine bottles were nowhere to be found.
     Even among the small circle who know Hal gets secretly high, it doesn't make much sense that Hal's misery'd be Tavis- or
urine-related, since Pemulis has never seemed blither than today; and if anyone were going to get the boot, chemically or
otherwise, it was not going to be the E.T.A. administration's relative and second-best boy.
     Hal and his brother Mario both know that the skim milk at E.T.A. has been pre-mixed powdered milk since Charles Tavis
assumed the helm four years back and told Mrs. Clarke he wanted the kids' animal-fat intake halved in a month by any and all
means. The kitchen's graveyard shift power-mixes it in enormous steel bowls and then strains out the foam and pours the milk into
real-milk milk-dispenser bags for a kind of placebo effect; it's mostly just the concept of powdered milk that gags people.
     Struck has traded his shiny clean plate for the absent Incandenza's fortification-structured plate of uneaten fillets, low-gluten
bread, corn-bread, baby boileds, a pea-chickpea-based olla, half a fresh squash, mashed potatoes packed in a stelliform gelatin
mold, and a shallow bowl of dessert-tsimmes featuring mostly it seemed like plums. Hal is still down on one knee by Ingersoll's
chair, his elbows on his knee, listening across Ingersoll and a blindfolded Idris Arslanian to Tony Nwangi. Keith Freer remarks
blandly on how Hal seems like he's feeling sort of punk this evening, checking Stice for a reaction. Struck utters truisms about
wasting food and global hunger through a full mouth. Struck is wearing a Sox cap to the side so the bill shadows half his face. The
bread is unkind to his braces. Freer is wearing the leather vest with no shirt under, which is what he favors after weights have
pumped his torso full of air. Stice had had a traumatic psychic experience at fourteen when he'd set the weight on the pull-down
station too high, and Dr. Dolores Rusk has authorized his exemption from all but very basic weights, pending resolution of his fear
of weights. The joke around E.T.A. is that Stice, who's surely Show-bound after graduation, has no fear of heights, but does fear
weights. Keith Freer, though kind of a second-rank junior player, does look beautiful in his calfskin vest -- his face and body
match. Troeltsch wants a sportscasting career, but Freer is the E.T.A. with looks InterLace would favor. Freer's from inland Mary-
land, originally, his family's riches nouveaux, a family Amway business that hit big in the B.S. '90s with his now-deceased father's
invention of a Pet-Rockish novelty that was ubiquitous in stockings for two straight pre-millennial Xmases -- the so-called
Phoneless Cord. Stice dimly recalls his old man getting a Phoneless Cord in his stocking, ostentatiously packaged, on Ortho's first
recallable Xmas, back in Partridge KS, the old man cocking an eyebrow and The Bride laughing and slapping her big knee.
Nobody now much even gets the remembered gag, though, so few things needing cords anymore. But Freer's old man had
invested his windfall shrewdly.