

     If, by the virtue of charity or the circumstance of desperation, you ever chance to spend a little time around a Substance-
recovery halfway facility like Enfield MA's state-funded Ennet House, you will acquire many exotic new facts. You will find out
that once MA's Department of Social Services has taken a mother's children away for any period of time, they can always take
them away again, D.S.S., like at will, empowered by nothing more than a certain signature-stamped form. I.e. once deemed Unfit
-- no matter why or when, or what's transpired in the meantime -- there's nothing a mother can do.
     Or for instance that people addicted to a Substance who abruptly stop ingesting the Substance often suffer wicked papular
acne, often for months afterward, as the accumulations of Substance slowly leave the body. The Staff will inform you that this is
because the skin is actually the body's biggest excretory organ. Or that chronic alcoholics' hearts are -- for reasons no M.D. has
been able to explain -- swollen to nearly twice the size of civilians' human hearts, and they never again return to normal size. That
there's a certain type of person who carries a picture of their therapist in their wallet. That (both a relief and kind of an odd let-
down) black penises tend to be the same general size as white penises, on the whole. That not all U.S. males are circumcised.
     That you can cop a sort of thin jittery amphetaminic buzz if you rapidly consume three Millennial Fizzies and a whole
package of Oreo cookies on an empty stomach. (Keeping it down is required, however, for the buzz, which senior residents often
neglect to tell newer residents.)
     That the chilling Hispanic term for whatever interior disorder drives the addict back again and again to the enslaving
Substance is tecato gusano, which apparently connotes some kind of interior psychic worm that cannot be sated or killed.
     That black and Hispanic people can be as big or bigger racists than white people, and then can get even more hostile and
unpleasant when this realization seems to surprise you.
     That it is possible, in sleep, for some roommates to secure a cigarette from their bedside pack, light it, smoke it down to the
quick, and then extinguish it in their bedside ashtray -- without once waking up, and without setting anything on fire. You will be
informed that this skill is usually acquired in penal institutions, which will lower your inclination to complain about the practice.
Or that even Flents industrial-strength expandable-foam earplugs do not solve the problem of a snoring roommate if the roommate
in question is so huge and so adenoidal that the snores in question also produce subsonic vibrations that arpeggio up and down
your body and make your bunk jiggle like a motel bed you've put a quarter in.
     That females are capable of being just as vulgar about sexual and elim-inatory functions as males. That over 60% of all
persons arrested for drug-and alcohol-related offenses report being sexually abused as children, with two-thirds of the remaining
40% reporting that they cannot remember their childhoods in sufficient detail to report one way or the other on abuse. That you
can weave hypnotic Madame Psychosis-like harmonies around the minor-D scream of a cheap vacuum cleaner, humming to
yourself as you vacuum, if that's your Chore. That some people really do look like rodents. That some drug-addicted prostitutes
have a harder time giving up prostitution than they have giving up drugs, with their explanation involving the two habits' very
different directions of currency-flow. That there are just as many idioms for the female sex-organ as there are for the male sex-
organ.
     That a little-mentioned paradox of Substance addiction is: that once you are sufficiently enslaved by a Substance to need to
quit the Substance in order to save your life, the enslaving Substance has become so deeply important to you that you will all but
lose your mind when it is taken away from you. Or that sometime after your Substance of choice has just been taken away from
you in order to save your life, as you hunker down for required a.m. and P.M. prayers, you will find yourself beginning to pray to
be allowed literally to lose your mind, to be able to wrap your mind in an old newspaper or something and leave it in an alley to
shift for itself, without you.
     That in metro Boston the idiom of choice for the male sex-organ is: Unit, which is why Ennet House residents are wryly
amused by E.M.P.H. Hospital's designations of its campus's buildings.
     That certain persons simply will not like you no matter what you do. Then that most nonaddicted adult civilians have already
absorbed and accepted this fact, often rather early on.
     That no matter how smart you thought you were, you are actually way less smart than that.
     That AA and NA and CA's 'God' does not apparently require that you believe in Him/Her/It before He/She/It will help
you. <endnote>69</endnote> That, pace macho bullshit, public male weeping is not only plenty masculine but can actually feel good (reportedly).
That sharing means talking, and taking somebody's inventory means criticizing that person, plus many additional pieces of
Recoveryspeak. That an important part of halfway-house Human Immuno-Virus prevention is not leaving your razor or
toothbrush in communal bathrooms. That apparently a seasoned prostitute can (reportedly) apply a condom to a customer's Unit so
deftly he doesn't even know it's on until he's history, so to speak.
     That a double-layered steel portable strongbox w/ tri-tumblered lock for your razor and toothbrush can be had for under
$35.00U.S./$38.50 O.N.A.N. via Home-Net Hardware, and that Pat M. or the House Manager will let you use the back office's old
TP to order one if you put up a sustained enough squawk.
     That over 50% of persons with a Substance addiction suffer from some other recognized form of psychiatric disorder, too.
That some male prostitutes become so accustomed to enemas that they cannot have valid bowel movements without them. That a
majority of Ennet House residents have at least one tattoo. That the significance of this datum is unanalyzable. That the metro
Boston street term for not having any money is: sporting lint. That what elsewhere's known as Informing or Squealing or Narcing
or Ratting or Ratting Out is on the streets of metro Boston known as 'Eating Cheese,' presumably spun off from the associative
nexus of rat.
     That nose-, tongue-, lip-, and eyelid-rings rarely require actual penetrative piercing. This is because of the wide variety of
clip-on rings available. That nipple-rings do require piercing, and that clitoris- and glans-rings are not things anyone thinks you
really want to know the facts about. That sleeping can be a form of emotional escape and can with sustained effort be abused. That
female chicanos are not called chicanas. That it costs $225 U.S. to get a MA driver's license with your picture but not your name.
That purposeful sleep-deprivation can also be an abusable escape. That gambling can be an abusable escape, too, and work,
shopping, and shoplifting, and sex, and abstention, and masturbation, and food, and exercise, and meditation/prayer, and sitting so
close to Ennet House's old D.E.C. TP cartridge-viewer that the screen fills your whole vision and the screen's static charge tickles
your nose like a linty mitten. <endnote>70</endnote>
      That you do not have to like a person in order to learn from him/her/it. That loneliness is not a function of solitude. That it is
possible to get so angry you really do see everything red. What a 'Texas Catheter' is. That some people really do steal -- will steal
things that are yours. That a lot of U.S. adults truly cannot read, not even a ROM hypertext phonics thing with HELP functions for
every word. That cliquey alliance and exclusion and gossip can be forms of escape. That logical validity is not a guarantee of
truth. That evil people never believe they are evil, but rather that everyone else is evil. That it is possible to learn valuable things
from a stupid person. That it takes effort to pay attention to any one stimulus for more than a few seconds. That you can all of a
sudden out of nowhere want to get high with your Substance so bad that you think you will surely die if you don't, and but can just
sit there with your hands writhing in your lap and face wet with craving, can want to get high but instead just sit there, wanting to
but not, if that makes sense, and if you can gut it out and not hit the Substance during the craving the craving will eventually pass,
it will go away -- at least for a while. That it is statistically easier for low-IQ people to kick an addiction than it is for high-IQ
people. That the metro Boston street term for panhandling is: stemming, and that it is regarded by some as a craft or art; and that
professional stem-artists actually have like little professional colloquia sometimes, little conventions, in parks or public-transport
hubs, at night, where they get together and network and exchange feedback on trends and techniques and public relations, etc.
That it is possible to abuse OTC cold-and allergy remedies in an addictive manner. That Nyquil is over 50 proof. That boring
activities become, perversely, much less boring if you concentrate intently on them. That if enough people in a silent room are
drinking coffee it is possible to make out the sound of steam coming off the coffee. That sometimes human beings have to just sit
in one place and, like, hurt. That you will become way less concerned with what other people think of you when you realize how
seldom they do. That there is such a thing as raw, unalloyed, agendaless kindness. That it is possible to fall asleep during an
anxiety attack.
      That concentrating intently on anything is very hard work.
      That addiction is either a disease or a mental illness or a spiritual condition (as in 'poor of spirit') or an O.C.D.-like disorder or
an affective or character disorder, and that over 75% of the veteran Boston AAs who want to convince you that it is a disease will
make you sit down and watch them write DISEASE on a piece of paper and then divide and hyphenate the word so that it
becomes DIS-EASE, then will stare at you as if expecting you to undergo some kind of blinding epiphanic realization, when really
(as G. Day points tirelessly out to his counselors) changing DISEASE to DIS-EASE reduces a definition and explanation down to
a simple description of a feeling, and rather a whiny insipid one at that.
      That most Substance-addicted people are also addicted to thinking, meaning they have a compulsive and unhealthy
relationship with their own thinking. That the cute Boston AA term for addictive-type thinking is: Analysis-Paralysis. That cats
will in fact get violent diarrhea if you feed them milk, contrary to the popular image of cats and milk. That it is simply more
pleasant to be happy than to be pissed off. That 99% of compulsive thinkers' thinking is about themselves; that 99% of this self-
directed thinking consists of imagining and then getting ready for things that are going to happen to them; and then, weirdly, that
if they stop to think about it, that 100% of the things they spend 99% of their time and energy imagining and trying to prepare for
all the contingencies and consequences of are never good. Then that this connects interestingly with the early-sobriety urge to pray
for the literal loss of one's mind. In short that 99% of the head's thinking activity consists of trying to scare the everliving shit out
of itself. That it is possible to make rather tasty poached eggs in a microwave oven. That the metro-street term for really quite
wonderful is: pisser. That everybody's sneeze sounds different. That some people's moms never taught them to cover up or turn
away when they sneeze. That no one who has been to prison is ever the same again. That you do not have to have sex with a
person to get crabs from them. That a clean room feels better to be in than a dirty room. That the people to be most frightened of
are the people who are the most frightened. That it takes great personal courage to let yourself appear weak. That you don't have
to hit somebody even if you really really want to. That no single, individual moment is in and of itself unendurable. That nobody
who's ever gotten sufficiently addictively enslaved by a Substance to need to quit the Substance and has successfully quit it for a
while and been straight and but then has for whatever reason gone back and picked up the Substance again has ever reported being
glad that they did it, used the Substance again and gotten re-enslaved; not ever. That bit is a metro Boston street term for a jail
sentence, as in 'Don G. was up in Billerica on a six-month bit.' That it's impossible to kill fleas by hand. That it's possible to smoke
so many cigarettes that you get little white ulcerations on your tongue. That the effects of too many cups of coffee are in no way
pleasant or intoxicating.
      That pretty much everybody masturbates. Rather a lot, it turns out.
      That the cliche 'I don't know who I am' unfortunately turns out to be more than a cliche. That it costs $330 U.S. to get a
passport in a phony name. That other people can often see things about you that you yourself cannot see, even if those people are
stupid. That you can obtain a major credit card with a phony name for $1500 U.S., but that no one will give you a straight answer
about whether this price includes a verifiable credit history and line of credit for when the cashier slides the phony card through
the register's little verification-modem with all sorts of burly security guards standing around. That having a lot of money does not
immunize people from suffering or fear. That trying to dance sober is a whole different kettle of fish. That the term vig is street
argot for the bookmaker's commission on an illegal bet, usually 10%, that's either subtracted from your winnings or added to your
debt. That certain sincerely devout and spiritually advanced people believe that the God of their understanding helps them find
parking places and gives them advice on Mass. Lottery numbers. That cockroaches can, up to a certain point, be lived with. That
'acceptance' is usually more a matter of fatigue than anything else. That different people have radically different ideas of basic
personal hygiene.
      That, perversely, it is often more fun to want something than to have it.
     That if you do something nice for somebody in secret, anonymously, without letting the person you did it for know it was you
or anybody else know what it was you did or in any way or form trying to get credit for it, it's almost its own form of intoxicating
buzz.
     That anonymous generosity, too, can be abused.
     That having sex with someone you do not care for feels lonelier than not having sex in the first place, afterward.
     That it is permissible to want.
     That everybody is identical in their secret unspoken belief that way deep down they are different from everyone else. That
this isn't necessarily perverse.
     That there might not be angels, but there are people who might as well be angels.
     That God -- unless you're Charlton Heston, or unhinged, or both -- speaks and acts entirely through the vehicle of human
beings, if there is a God.
     That God might regard the issue of whether you believe there's a God or not as fairly low on his/her/its list of things s/he/it's
interested in re you.
     That the smell of Athlete's Foot is sick-sweet v. the smell of podiatric Dry Rot is sick-sour.
     That a person -- one with the Disease/-Ease -- will do things under the influence of Substances that he simply would not
ever do sober, and that some consequences of these things cannot ever be erased or amended. <endnote>71</endnote> Felonies are an example of this.
     As are tattoos. Almost always gotten on impulse, tattoos are vividly, chillingly permanent. The shopworn 'Act in Haste,
Repent at Leisure' would seem to have been almost custom-designed for the case of tattoos. For a while, the new resident Tiny
Ewell got first keenly interested and then weirdly obsessed with people's tattoos, and he started going around to all the residents
and outside people who hung around Ennet House to help keep straight, asking to check out their tattoos and wanting to hear
about the circumstances surrounding each tattoo. These little spasms of obsession -- like first with the exact definition of
alcoholic, and then with Morris H.'s special tollhouse cookies until the pancreatitis-flare, then with the exact kinds of corners
everybody made their bed up with -- these were part of the way Tiny E. temporarily lost his mind when his enslaving Substance
was taken away. The tattoo thing started out with Tiny's white-collar amazement at just how many of the folks around Ennet
House seemed to have tattoos. And the tattoos seemed like potent symbols of not only whatever they were pictures of but also of
the chilling irrevocability of intoxicated impulses.
     Because the whole thing about tattoos is that they're permanent, of course, irrevocable once gotten -- which of course the
irrevocability of a tattoo is what jacks up the adrenaline of the intoxicated decision to sit down in the chair and actually get it (the
tattoo) -- but the chilling thing about the intoxication is that it seems to make you consider only the adrenaline of the moment
itself, not (in any depth) the irrevocability that produces the adrenaline. It's like the intoxication keeps your tattoo-type-class
person from being able to project his imagination past the adrenaline of the impulse and even consider the permanent
consequences that are producing the buzz of excitement.
     Tiny Ewell'll put this same abstract but not very profound idea in a whole number of varied ways, over and over, obsessively
almost, and still fail to get any of the tattooed residents interested, although Bruce Green will listen politely, and the clinically
depressed Kate Gompert usually won't have the juice to get up and walk away when Tiny starts in, which makes Ewell seek her
out vis-à-vis tattoos, though she hasn't got a tattoo.
     But they don't have any problem with showing Tiny their tatts, the residents with tatts don't, unless they're female and the
thing is in some sort of area where there's a Boundary Issue.
     As Tiny Ewell comes to see it, people with tattoos fall under two broad headings. First there are the younger scrofulous
boneheaded black-T-shirt-and-spiked-bracelet types who do not have the sense to regret the impulsive permanency of their tatts,
and will show them off to you with the same fake-quiet pride with which someone more of Ewell's own social stratum would
show off their collection of Dynastic crockery or fine Sauvignon. Then there are the more numerous (and older) second types,
who'll show you their tattoos with the sort of stoic regret (albeit tinged with a bit of self-conscious pride about the stoicism) that a
Purple-Hearted veteran displays toward his old wounds' scars. Resident Wade McDade has complex nests of blue and red serpents
running down the insides of both his arms, and is required to wear long:sleeved shirts every day to his menial job at Store 24, even
though the store's heat always loses its mind in the early A.M. and it's always wicked motherfucking hot in there, because the
store's Pakistani manager believes his customers will not wish to purchase Marlboro Lights and Mass. Gig-abucks lottery tickets
from someone with vascular-colored snakes writhing all over his arms. <endnote>72</endnote> McDade also has a flaming skull on his left shoul-
derblade. Doony Glynn has the faint remains of a black dotted line tattooed all the way around his neck at about Adam's-apple
height, with instruction-manual-like directions for the removal of his head and maintenance of the disengaged head tattooed on his
scalp, from the days of his Skinhead youth, which now the tattooed directions take patience and a comb and three of April
Cortelyu's barrettes for Tiny even to see.
     Actually, a couple weeks into the obsession Ewell broadens his dermo-taxonomy to include a third category, Bikers, of whom
there are presently none in Ennet House but plenty around the area's AA meetings, in beards and leather vests and apparently
having to meet some kind of weight-requirement of at least 200 kilos. Bikers is the metro Boston street term for them, though they
seem to refer to themselves usually as Scooter-Puppies, a term which (Ewell finds out the hard way) non-Bikers are not invited to
use. These guys are veritable one-man tattoo festivals, but when they show them to you they're disconcerting because they'll bare
their tatts with the complete absence of affect of somebody just showing you like a limb or a thumb, not quite sure why you want
to see or even what it is you're looking at.
     A like N.B. that Ewell ends up inserting under the heading Biker is that every professional tattooist everybody who can
remember getting their tattoos remembers getting them from was, from the sound of everybody's general descriptions, a Biker.
     W/r/t the Stoic-Regret group within Ennet House, it emerges that the male tattoos with women's names on them tend, in their
irrevocability, to be especially disastrous and regretful, given the extremely provisional nature of most addicts' relationships.
Bruce Green will have MILDRED BONK on his jilted right triceps forever. Likewise the DORIS in red-dripping Gothic script
just below the left breast of Emil Minty, who yes apparently did love once. Minty also has a palsied and amateur swastika with the
caption FUCK NIGERS on a left biceps he is heartily encouraged to keep covered, as a resident. Chandler Foss has an undulating
banner with a redly inscribed MARY on one forearm, said banner now mangled and necrotic because Foss, dumped and badly
coked out one night, tried to nullify the romantic connotations of the tatt by inscribing BLESSED VIRGIN above the MARY with
a razor blade and a red Bic, with predictably ghastly results. Real tattoo artists (Ewell gets this on authority after a White Flag
Group meeting from a Biker whose triceps' tattoo of a huge disembodied female breast being painfully squeezed by a disembodied
hand which is itself tattooed with a disembodied breast and hand communicates real tattoo-credibility, as far as Tiny's concerned)
real tatt-artists are always highly trained professionals.
     What's sad about the gorgeous violet arrow-pierced heart with PAMELA incised in a circle around it on Randy Lenz's right
hip is that Lenz has no memory either of the tattoo-impulse and -procedure or of anybody named Pamela. Charlotte Treat has a
small green dragon on her calf and another tattoo on a breast she's set a Boundary about letting Tiny see. Hester Thrale has an
amazingly detailed blue and green tattoo of the planet Earth on her stomach, its poles abutting pubis and breasts, an equatorial
view of which cost Tiny Ewell two weeks of doing Hester's weekly Chore. Overall searing-regret honors probably go to Jennifer
Belbin, who has four uncoverable black teardrops descending from the corner of one eye, from one night of mescaline and
adrenalized grief, so that from more than two meters away she always looks like she has flies on her, Randy Lenz points out. The
new black girl Didi N. has on the plane of her upper abdomen a tattered screaming skull (off the same stencil as McDade's, but
w/o the flames) that's creepy because it's just a tattered white outline: Black people's tattoos are rare, and for reasons Ewell regards
as fairly obvious they tend to be just white outlines.
     Ennet House alumnus and volunteer counselor Calvin Thrust is quietly rumored to have on the shaft of his formerly
professional porn-cartridge-performer's Unit a tattoo that displays the magiscule initials CT when the Unit is flaccid and the full
name CALVIN THRUST when hyperemic. Tiny Ewell has soberly elected to let this go unsubstantiated. Alumna and v.c.
Danielle Steenbok once got the bright idea of having eyeliner-colored tattoos put around both eyes so she'd never again have to
apply eyeliner, not banking on the inevitable fade that over time's turned the tattoos a kind of nauseous dark-green she now has to
constantly apply eyeliner to cover up. Current female live-in Staffer Johnette Foltz has undergone two of the six painful
procedures required to have the snarling orange-and-blue tiger removed from her left forearm and so now has a snarling tiger
minus a head and one front leg, with the ablated parts looking like someone determined has been at her forearm with steel wool.
Ewell decides this is what gives profundity to the tattoo-impulse's profound irrevocability: Having a tatt removed means just
exchanging one kind of disfigurement for another. There are Tingly and Diehl's identical palmate-cannabis-leaf-on-inner-wrist
tattoos, though Tingly and Diehl are from opposite shores and never crossed paths before entering the House.
     Nell Gunther refuses to discuss tattoos with Tiny Ewell in any way or form.
     For a while, Tiny Ewell considers live-in Staffer Don Gately's homemade jailhouse tattoos too primitive to even bother asking
about.
     He'd made a true pest of himself, though, Ewell did, when at the height of the obsession this one synthetic-narc-addicted kid
came in who refused to be called anything but his street name, Skull, and lasted only like four days, but who'd been a walking
exhibition of high-regret ink -- both arms tattooed with spiderwebs at the elbows, on his fishy-white chest a naked lady with the
same kind of overlush measurements Ewell remembered from the pinball machines of his Watertown childhood. On Skull's back a
half-m.-long skeleton in a black robe and cowl playing the violin in the wind on a crag with THE DEAD in maroon on a vertical
gonfalonish banner unfurling below; on one biceps either an icepick or a mucronate dagger, and down both forearms a kind of St.
Vitus's dance of leather-winged dragons with the words --on both forearms --HOW DO YOU LIK YOUR BLUEYED BOY
NOW MR DETH.'?, the typos of which, Tiny felt, only served to heighten Skull's whole general tatt-gestalt's intended effect,
which Tiny presumed was primarily to repel.
     In fact Tiny E.'s whole displacement of obsession from bunks' hospital corners to people's tattoos was probably courtesy of
this kid Skull, who on his second night in the newer male residents' Five-Man Room had shed his electrified muscle-shirt and was
showing off his tattoos in a boneheaded regretless first-category fashion to Ken Erdedy while R. Lenz did headstands against the
closet door in his jockstrap and Ewell and Geoffrey D. had their wallets' credit cards spread out on EwelPs drum-tight bunk and
were trying to settle a kind of admittedly childish argument about who had the more prestigious credit cards -- Skull flexing his
pectorals to make the overdeveloped woman on his chest writhe, reading his forearms to Erdedy, etc. -- and Geoffrey Day had
looked up from his AmEx (Gold, to EwelFs Platinum) and shaken his moist pale head at Ewell and asked rhetorically what had
ever happened to good old traditional U.S. tattoos like MOM or an anchor, which for some reason touched off a small obsessive
explosion in EwelPs detox-frazzled psyche.
     Probably the most poignant items in Ewell's survey are the much-faded tattoos of old Boston AA guys who've been sober in
the Fellowship for decades, the crocodilic elder statesmen of the White Flag and Allston Groups and the St. Columbkill Sunday
Night Group and Ewell's chosen Home Group, Wednesday night's Better Late Than Never Group (Nonsmoking) at St. Elizabeth's
Hospital just two blocks down from the House. There is something queerly poignant about a deeply faded tattoo, a poignancy
something along the lines of coming upon the tiny and poignantly unfashionable clothes of a child long-since grown up in an attic
trunk somewhere (the clothes, not the grown child, Ewell confirmed for G. Day). See, e.g., White Flag's cantankerous old Francis
('Ferocious Francis') Gehaney's right forearm's tatt of a martini glass with a naked lady sitting in the glass with her legs kicking up
over the broad flaring rim, with an old-style Rita Hayworth-era bangs-intensive hairstyle. Faded to a kind of underwater blue, its
incidental black lines gone soot-green and the red of the lips/nails/ SUBIKBAY'62USN4-07 not lightened to pink but more like
decayed to the dusty red of fire through much smoke. All these old sober Boston blue-collar men's irrevocable tattoos fading
almost observably under the low-budget fluorescence of church basements and hospital auditoria -- Ewell watched and charted
and cross-referenced them, moved. Any number of good old U.S.N. anchors, and in Irish Boston sooty green shamrocks, and
several little frozen tableaux of little khaki figures in G.I. helmets plunging bayonets into the stomachs of hideous urine-yellow
bucktoothed Oriental caricatures, and screaming eagles with their claws faded blunt, and SEMPER FI, all autolyzed to the point
where the tattoos look like they're just under the surface of a murky-type pond.
     A tall silent hard-looking old black-haired BLTN-Group veteran has the terse and hateful single word PUSSY in what's faded
to pond-scum green down one liver-spotted forearm; but yet the fellow transcends even stoic regret by dressing and carrying
himself as if the word simply wasn't there, or was so irrevocably there there was no point even thinking about it: there's a deep and
tremendously compelling dignity about the old man's demeanor w/r/t the PUSSY on his arm, and Ewell actually considers
approaching this fellow re the issue of sponsorship, if and when he feels it's appropriate to get an AA sponsor, if he decides it's
germane in his case.
     Near the conclusion of this two-month obsession, Tiny Ewell approaches Don Gately on the subject of whether the jailhouse
tattoo should maybe comprise a whole separate phylum of tattoo. Ewell's personal feeling is that jailhouse tattoos aren't poignant
so much as grotesque, that they seem like they weren't a matter of impulsive decoration or self-presentation so much as simple
self-mutilation arising out of boredom and general disregard for one's own body and the aesthetics of decoration. Don Gately's
developed the habit of staring coolly at Ewell until the little attorney shuts up, though this is partly to disguise the fact that Gately
usually can't follow what Ewell's saying and is unsure whether this is because he's not smart or educated enough to understand
Ewell or because Ewell is simply out of his fucking mind.
     Don Gately tells Ewell how your basic-type jailhouse tatt is homemade with sewing needles from the jailhouse canteen and
some blue ink from the cartridge of a fountain pen promoted from the breast pocket of an unalert Public Defender, is why the
jailhouse genre is always the same night-sky blue. The needle is dipped in the ink and jabbed as deep into the tattooee as it can be
jabbed without making him recoil and fucking up your aim. Just a plain ultraminimal blue square like Gately's got on his right
wrist takes half a day and hundreds of individual jabs. How come the lines are never quite straight and the color's never quite all
the way solid is it's impossible to get all the individualized punctures down to the same uniform deepness in the, like, twitching
flesh. This is why jailhouse tatts always look like they were done by sadistic children on rainy afternoons. Gately has a blue
square on his right wrist and a sloppy cross on the inside of his mammoth left forearm. He'd done the square himself, and a
cellmate had done the cross in return for Gately doing a cross on the cellmate. Oral narcotics render the process both less painful
and less tedious. The sewing needle is sterilized in grain alcohol, which Gately explains that the alcohol is got by taking mess-hall
fruit and mashing it up and adding water and secreting the whole mess in a Ziploc just inside the flush-hole thing of the cell's
toilet, to, like, foment. The sterilizing results of this can be consumed, as well. Bonded liquor and cocaine are the only things hard
to get inside of M.D.C. penal institutions, because the expense of them gets everybody all excited and it's only a matter of time
before somebody goes and eats cheese. The inexpensive C-IV oral narcotic Talwin can be traded for cigarettes, however, which
can in turn be got at the canteen or won at cribbage and dominoes (M.D.C. regs prohibit straight-out cards) or got in mass
quantities off smaller inmates in return for protection from the romantic advances of larger inmates. Gately is right-handed and his
arms are roughly the size of Tiny EwelPs legs. His wrist's jailhouse square is canted and has sloppy extra blobs at three of the
corners. Your average jailhouse tatt can't be removed even with laser surgery because it's incised so deep in. Gately is polite about
Tiny Ewell's inquiries but not expansive, i.e. Tiny has to ask very specific questions about whatever he wishes to know and then
gets a short specific answer from Gately to just that question. Then Gately stares at him, a habit Ewell tends to complain about at
some length up in the Five-Man Room. His interest in tattoos seems to be regarded by Gately not as invasive but as the temporary
obsession of a still-quivering Substanceless psyche that in a couple weeks will have forgot all about tattoos, an attitude Ewell
finds condescending in the extremus. Gately's attitude toward his own primitive tattoos is a second-category attitude, with most of
the stoicism and acceptance of his tatt-regret sincere, if only because these irrevocable emblems of jail are minor Rung Bells
compared to some of the fucked-up and really irrevocable impulsive mistakes Gately'd made as an active drug addict and burglar,
not to mention their consequences, the mistakes', which Gately's trying to accept he'll be paying off for a real long time.

