     Ennet House Drug and Alcohol Recovery House4949 was founded in the Year of the Whopper by a nail-tough old chronic
drug addict and alcoholic who had spent the bulk of his adult life under the supervision of the Massachusetts Department of
Corrections before discovering the fellowship of Alcoholics Anonymous at M.D.C.-Walpole and undergoing a sudden experience
of total self-surrender and spiritual awakening in the shower during his fourth month of continuous AA sobriety. This recovered
addict/ alcoholic -- who in his new humility so valued AA's tradition of anonymity that he refused even to use his first name, and
was known in Boston AA simply as the Guy Who Didn't Even Use His First Name -- opened Ennet House within a year of his
parole, determined to pass on to other chronic drug addicts and alcoholics what had been so freely given to him in the E-Tier
shower.
     Ennet House leases a former physicians' dormitory in the Enfield Marine Public Health Hospital Complex, managed by the
United States Veterans Administration. Ennet House is equipped to provide 22 male and female clients a nine-month period of
closely supervised residency and treatment.
     Ennet House was not only founded but originally renovated, furnished, and decorated by the nameless local AA ex-con, who
-- since sobriety doesn't exactly mean instant sainthood -- used to lead select teams of early-recovery dope fiends on after-hours
boosting expeditions at area furniture and housewares establishments.
      This legendary anonymous founder was an extremely tough old Boston AA galoot who believed passionately that everyone,
no matter how broad the trail of slime they dragged in behind them, deserved the same chance at sobriety through utterly total
surrender he'd been granted. It's a kind of extremely tough love found almost exclusively in tough old Boston galoots.5050 He
sometimes, the founder, in the House's early days, required incoming residents to attempt to eat rocks -- as in like rocks from the
ground -- to demonstrate their willingness to go to any lengths for the gift of sobriety. The Massachusetts Department of Public
Health's Division of Substance Abuse Services eventually requested that this practice be discontinued.
      Ennet was not any part of the nameless Ennet House founder's name, by the way.
      The rock thing -- which has become a grim bit of mythopoeia now trotted out to illustrate how cushy the present Ennet
residents have it -- was probably not as whacko as it seemed to Division of S.A.S., since many of the things veteran AA's ask
newcomers to do and believe seem not much less whacko than trying to chew feldspar. E.g. be so strung out you can feel your
pulse in your eyeballs, have the shakes so badly you make a spatter-painting on the wall every time somebody hands you a cup of
coffee, have the life-forms out of the corner of your eye be your only distraction from the chainsaw-racing chatter in your head,
sitting there, and have some old lady with cat-hair on her nylons come at you to hug you and tell you to make a list of all the
things you're grateful for today: you'll wish you had some feldspar handy, too.
      In the Year of the Yushityu 2007 Mimetic-Resolution-Cartridge-View-Motherboard-Easy-To-Install Upgrade For
Infernatron/InterLace TP Systems For Home, Office Or Mobile,5151 the nameless founder's death of a cerebral hemorrhage at age
sixty-eight went unremarked outside the Boston AA community.