

     Orin ('O.') Incandenza stands embracing a putatively Swiss hand-model in a rented room. They embrace. Their faces become
sexual faces. It seems clear evidence of a kind of benign fate or world-spirit that this incredible specimen had appeared at Sky
Harbor Int. Airp. just as Orin stood with his fine forehead against the glass of the Gate overlooking the tarmac after actually
volunteering to drive Helen Steeply all the nightmarish way down I-17/-10 to the ghastly glittering unnavigable airport and the
Subject seemed, in the car, not only not especially grateful, and hadn't let him so much as place a friendly and supportive palm on
her incredible quadricep during the ride, but had been irritatingly all-business and had continued to pursue lines of family-linen
inquiry he'd all but begged her to quit subjecting him to the inappropriateness of <endnote>234</endnote> -- that, as he stood there after having
received little other than a cool smile and a promise to try to say hello to Hallie, with his forehead against the glass of the Weston
back door -- or rather the Delta gate window -- this incredible specimen had -- unbidden, unStrategized -- come up to him and
started a lush foreign-accented conversation and revealed professionally lovely hands as she rooted in her tripolymer bag to ask
him to autograph for her toddler-age son a Cardinal-souvenir football she had right there (!) in her bag, along with her Swiss
passport -- as if the universe were reaching out a hand to pluck him from the rim of the abyss of despair that any real sort of
rejection or frustration of his need for some Subject he'd picked out always threatened him with, as if he'd been teetering with his
arms windmilling at a great height without even idiotic red wings strapped to his back and the universe were sending this lovely
steadying left hand to pull him gently back and embrace him and not so much console him as remind him of who and what he was
about, standing there embracing a Subject with a sexual face for his sexual face, no longer speaking, the football and pen on the
neatly made bed, the two of them embracing between the bed and the mirror with the woman facing the bed so that Orin can see
past her head the large hanging mirror and the small framed photos of her Swiss family arrayed along the wood-grain dresser
below the window, <endnote>235</endnote> the tubby-faced man and Swiss-looking kids all smiling trustingly into a nothing somewhere up and to
their right.
     They have shifted into a sexual mode. Her lids flutter; his close. There's a concentrated tactile languor. She is left-handed. It is
not about consolation. They start the thing with each other's buttons. It is not about conquest or forced capture. It is not about
glands or instincts or the split-second shiver and clench of leaving yourself; nor about love or about whose love you deep-down
desire, by whom you feel betrayed. Not and never love, which kills what needs it. It feels to the punter rather to be about hope, an
immense, wide-as-the-sky hope of finding a something in each Subject's fluttering face, a something the same that will propitiate
hope, somehow, pay its tribute, the need to be assured that for a moment he has her, now has won her as if from someone or
something else, something other than he, but that he has her and is what she sees and all she sees, that it is not conquest but
surrender, that he is both offense and defense and she neither, nothing but this one second's love of her, of-her, spinning as it arcs
his way, not his but her love, that he has it, this love (his shirt off now, in the mirror), that for one second she loves him too much
to stand it, that she must (she feels) have him, must take him inside or else dissolve into worse than nothing; that all else is gone:
that her sense of humor is gone, her petty griefs, triumphs, memories, hands, career, betrayals, the deaths of pets -- that there is
now inside her a vividness vacuumed of all but his name: O., O. That he is the One.
     (This is why, maybe, one Subject is never enough, why hand after hand must descend to pull him back from the endless fall.
For were there for him just one, now, special and only, the One would be not he or she but what was between them, the
obliterating trinity of You and I into We. Orin felt that once and has never recovered, and will never again.)
     And about contempt, it is about a kind of hatred, too, along with the hope and need. Because he needs them, needs her,
because he needs her he fears her and so hates her a little, hates all of them, a hatred that comes out disguised as a contempt he
disguises in the tender attention with which he does the thing with her buttons, touches the blouse as if it too were part of her, and
him. As if it could feel. They have stripped each other neatly. Her mouth is glued to his mouth; she is his breath, his eyes shut
against the sight of hers. They are stripped in the mirror and she, in a kind of virtuoso jitterbug that is 100% New World, uses O.'s
uneven shoulders as support to leap and circle his neck with her legs, and she arches her back and is supported, her weight, by just
one hand at the small of her back as he bears her to bed as would a waiter a tray.

