      Entertainment-wise, things take a rapid turn for the splattery once the tough girl Blood Sister seemed to have saved is found
bluely dead in her novitiate's cot, her habit's interior pockets stuffed with all kinds of substances and paraphernalia and her arm a
veritable forest of syringes. Tight shot of B.S., face working purply, staring down at the ex-ex-punker. Suspecting foul play
instead of spiritual recidivism, Blood Sister, disregarding first the Other-Cheek pieties and then the impassioned pleas and then the
direct orders of the Vice-Mother Superior -- who happens now to be the tough nun who'd saved Blood Sister, way back -- begins
reverting to her former Toronto-mean-street pre-salvation tough-biker-chick ways: de-mufflering her Harley Hawg, hauling an
age-faded stud-covered leather bike-jacket out of storage and squeezing it over her pectoral-swollen habit, unbandaging her most
lurid tattoos, shaking down former altar boys for information, flipping off motorists who get in her bike's way, meeting old street-
contacts in dim saloons and tossing back jiggers with even the most cirrhotic of them, beating, bludgeoning, akido-ing, disarming
thugs of power tools, avenging the desalvation and demapping of her young charge, determined to prove that the girl's death was
no accident or backslide, that Blood Sister had not failed with the soul she'd chosen to save to discharge her own soul's debt to the
tough old Vice-Mother Superior who'd saved her, Blood Sister, so far back. Several thuggish stuntmen and countless liters of
potassium thiocyanate <footnote>296</footnote> later, the truth does out: the novitiate girl had been murdered by the Mother Superior, the order's top
and toughest nun. This M.S. is the nun who'd saved the Vice-M.S. who'd saved Blood Sister, meaning, ironically, that the
evidence Blood Sister needs to prove that her salvation-debt really was discharged is also evidence inimical to the legal interests
of the tough nun to whom Blood Sister's own saviour is obligated, so Blood Sister gets increasingly tortured and ill-tempered as
evidence of the Mother Superior's guilt accretes. In one scene she says fuck. In another she swings a censer like a mace and brains
an old verger who's one of the Mother Superior's stooges, knocking his toothless head clean off. Then, in Act III, a veritable orgy
of retribution follows the full emergence of the sordid truth: it seems that the tough old Vice-Mother Superior, viz. the nun who'd
saved Blood Sister, had in fact not been saved, truly, after all -- had in fact, during 20+ years of exemplary novena-saying and
wafer-baking, been suffering a kind of hidden degenerative recidivist soul-rot, and had resumed, the Více-M.S., at about the time
Blood Sister had donned the habit of full nunhood, had not only resumed Substance-dependence but had started actually dealing in
serious weights of whatever at the time was most profitable (which after 20+ years had changed from Marseillese heroin to
Colombian freebaseable-grade Bing Crosby) to support her own hidden habit, covertly operating a high-volume retail operation
out of the order's Community Outreach Rescue Mission's little-used confessionals. This nun's superior, the top tough Mother
Superior nun, stumbling onto the drug-operation after the now-demapped verger informed her that a suspicious number of
limousines were discharging gold-chained and not very penitent-looking persons into the order's Community Outreach Rescue
Mission, and disastrously unable to summon the pious humility to accept the fact that she'd failed, it seemed, at truly and forever
saving the ex-dealer whose salvation the Mother Superior required to discharge the debt to the now-retired octogenarian nun
who'd saved her -- this Mother Superior herself is the one who murdered Blood Sister's ex-punk novitiate, to silence the girl.
What emerges is that Blood Sister's addicted punk-girl's Substance-copping venue, when she was Out There pre-salvation, had
been nothing other than the Vice-Mother Superior's infamous Community Outreach Rescue Mission. In other words, the nun
who'd saved Blood Sister but had herself been secretly unsaved had been the tough girl's Bing-dealer, is why the tough non-
Catholic girl'd been so mysteriously adept at the Confiteor. The order's Mother Superior had figured that it was only a matter of
time before the girl's conversion and salvation reached the sort of spiritual pitch where her guarded silence broke and she told
Blood Sister the seamy truth about the nun she (Blood Sister) thought had saved her (Blood Sister). So she (the Mother Superior)
had eliminated the girl's map -- ostensibly, she (the Mother Superior) told her lieutenant, the Vice-Mother Superior, to save her
(the Vice-Mother Superior) from exposure and excommunication and maybe worse, if the girl weren't silenced. <footnote>297</footnote>
     This narratively prolix and tangled stuff all gets explicated at near-Kabuki volume during an appalling free-for-all in the
office of the Mother Superior who hadn't saved the Vice-M.S. who'd saved Blood Sister, with the two senior nuns -- who'd been
tough and unsaved back in the Ontarian days when men were men and so were drug-addicted bike-chicks -- teaming up and
kicking Blood Sister's ass, the fight-scene a blur of swirling habite-ments and serious martial arts against the spot-lit backdrop of
the wall's huge decorative mahogany crucifix, with Blood Sister giving a good account of herself but still getting her wimple beat
in and finally, after several whirling kicks to the forehead, starting to bid adieu to her corporeal map and commend herself to the
arms of God; until the unsaved recidivist Vice-Mother Superior nun who'd saved Blood Sister, wiping blood from her eyes after a
head-butt and seeing the Mother Superior about to decapitate Blood Sister with the souvenir Champlain-era tomahawk the Huron
nun who'd been saved by the original founder of the Toronto tough-girl-saving order had used to decapitate Jesuit missionaries
before she (the tough Huron nun) had been saved, seeing the tomahawk raised with both arms before the normally pious-eyed old
Mother Superior's face -- a face now rendered indescribable in aspect by the absence of humility and the passion for truth-
silencing that add up to pure and radical evil -- seeing now the upraised hatchet and demonized face of the M.S., the unsaved
Vice-nun has a moment of epiphanic anti-recidivist spiritual clarity, and averts Blood Sister's demapping by leaping across the
office and cold-cocking the Mother Superior with a large decorative mahogany Christian object so symbolically obvious it needn't
even be named, the object's symbolic unsubtlety making both Hal and Bridget Boone cringe. Now Blood Sister has the
Champlain-era hatchet, and the unsaved nun who'd saved her has an unnamed object whose mahogany's no match for a hatchet,
and they stand facing each other over the prone Mother Superior's puddle of skirts, chests heaving, and the Vice-M.S. has a
writhing expression under her askew wimple like Go ahead, make the circle of recidivist retribution against the nun you thought
had saved you but ultimately couldn't even save herself complete, complete the lapsarian circuit or whatever. They stare at each
other for countless frames, the office wall behind them cruciformly pale where the unnamed object'd hung. Then Blood Sister
shrugs in resignation and drops the tomahawk, and turns and with an ironic little obeisance walks out the Mother Superior's office
door and through the little sacristy and over the altar and down the little convent nave (bike boots echoing on the tile, emphasizing
the silence) and out the big doors whose tympanum overhead is carved with a sword and a ploughshare and a syringe and a soup-
ladle and the motto CON-TRARIA SUNT COMPLEMENTA, the heaviness of which makes Hal cringe so severely it's Boone
who has to supply the translation Kent Blott asks for. <footnote>298</footnote> On-screen, we're still following the tough nun (or ex-nun). The fact
that the hatchet she resignedly dropped fetched the prone Mother Superior a pretty healthy knock is presented as clearly
accidental... because she (Blood Sister) is still walking away from the convent, moving emphatically and in a gradually deepening
focus. Limping toughly eastward into the twittering Toronto dawn. The cartridge's closing sequence shows her astride her Hawg
on Toronto's meanest street. About to lapse? Backslide back into her tough pre-saved ways? It's unclear in a way that's supposed
to be rich: her expression is agnostic at best, but the huge sign of a discount Harley-muffler outlet juts just at the horizon she's
roaring toward. The closing credits are the odd lime-green of bugs on a windshield.
     It's hard to tell whether Boone and Bash's applause is sarcastic. There's that post-entertainment flurry of changed positions
and stretched limbs and critical sallies. Out of nowhere Hal remembers: Smothergill. Possalthwaite says he and the Id-man
brought Blott in to speak to Hal about something disturbing they encountered during their disciplinary shit-detail in the tunnels
that P.M. Hal holds up a hand for the kids to hang on, flipping through cartridge cases to see whether Low-Temperature Civics is
up here. All the cases are clearly labelled.