

      'AIYEE!' cries the man, rushing at the nun, wielding a power tool.
      The tough-looking nun yells 'AIYEE!' right back as she kicks at him expertly, her habit's skirts whipping complexly around
her. The combatants circle each other warily in the abandoned warehouse, both growling. The nun's wimple is askew and soiled;
the back of her hand, held out in a bladish martial-art fist, displays part of a faded tattoo, some wicked-clawed bird of prey. The
cartridge opens like this, in violent medias res, then freezes in the middle of the nun's leaping kick, and its title, Blood Sister: One
Tough Nun, gets matte-dissolved in and bleeds lurid blood-colored light down into the performance credits rolling across the
screen's bottom. Bridget Boone and Frances L. Unwin have come in uninvited and joined Hal in V.R. 6 and are curled up against
the arms of the room's other recumbency, their feet touching at the soles, Boone eating unauthorized frozen yogurt from a
cylindrical carton. Hal's turned the rheostat down low, and the film's title and credits make their faces glow redly. Bridget Boone
extends the confection-carton over in Hal's direction in an inviting way, and by way of declining Hal points to the lump of Kodiak
in his cheek and makes a display of leaning out to spit. He appears to be studying the scrolling credits very closely.
      'So what is this?' Fran Unwin says.
      Hal looks over at her very slowly, then even more slowly raises his right arm and points around the tennis ball he's squeezing
at the monitor, where the cartridge's 50-point title is still trickling redly over the credits and frozen scene.
      Bridget ßoone gives him a look. 'What's up your particular butt?'
      'I'm isolating. I came in here to be by myself.'
      She has this way that gets to Hal of digging the chocolate yogurt out with the spoon and then inverting the spoon, turning the
spoon over, so that it always enters her mouth upside-down and her tongue gets to contact the confection immediately, without the
mediation of cold spoon, and for some reason this has always gotten under Hal's skin.
      'So then you should've locked the door.'
      'Except there aren't locks on the V.R. doors, <endnote>287</endnote> as you quite well know.'
      Round-faced Frannie Unwin says 'Sshhh.'
     Then too sometimes Boone plays with the laden spoon, makes it fly around in front of her face like a child's plane before
inverting it and sticking it in. 'Maybe this is partly because this is a public room, for everybody, that your thinking person
probably wouldn't choose to isolate in.'
     Hal leans over to spit and lets the spit hang for a while before he lets it go, so it hangs there slowly distending.
     Boone withdraws the clean spoon just as slowly. 'No matter how sullen and pouty that person is over that person's play or
near-loss in full view of a whole crowd that day, I hear.'
     'Bridget, I forgot to tell you I saw that Rite Aid's having an enormous clearance on emetics. If I were you I'd scoot right over.'
     'You are vile.'
     Bernadette Longley sticks her long boxy head in the door and sees Bridget Boone and says 'I thought I heard you in here' and
comes in uninvited with Jennie Bash in tow.
     Hal whimpers.
     Jennie Bash looks at the large screen. The cartridge's theme-music is female-choral and very heavy and ironic on the descants.
Bernadette Long-ley looks at Hal. 'You know there's a totally huge lady cruising the halls looking for you, with a notebook and a
very determined expression.'
     Boone banks the spoon back and forth absently. 'He's isolating. He won't respond and is spitting extra repulsively to get
across the point.'
     Jennie Bash says 'Haven't you got a huge paper due for Thierry tomorrow? There was moaning coming from Struck and
Shaw's room.'
     Hal packs chew down with his tongue. 'Done.'
     'Figures,' Bridget Boone says.
     'Done, redone, formatted, printed, proofed, collated, stapled.'
     'Proofed to within its life,' Boone says, barrel-rolling the spoon. Hal can tell she's done a couple one-hitters. He's looking
straight at the wall's screen, squeezing the ball so hard his forearm keeps swelling to twice its size.
     'Plus I hear your best friend in the whole world did something really funny today,' Longley says.
     'She means Pemulis,' Fran Unwin tells Hal.
     Bridget Boone makes dive-bomber sounds and swoops the spoon around.
     'Sounds like too good a story not to save and let my craving for it build and build until finally it's like I have to hear it or die
right on the spot.'
     'What is up his butt?' Jennie Bash asks Fran Unwin. Fran Unwin's a sort of hanuman-faced girl with a torso and trunk about
twice as long as her legs, and a scuttly, vaguely simian style of play. Bernadette Longley wears knee-length candy-cane trousers
and a sweatshirt with the fleecy inside out. All the girls are now in socks. Hal notes that girls always seem to slip out of their shoes
when they assume any kind of spectatorial posture. Eight empty white sneakers now sit mute and weird at various points, slightly
sunk in carpet pile. No two of the shoes face quite the same exact direction. Male players, on the other hand, tend to leave the
footwear on when they come in and sit down somewhere. Girls literally embody the idea of making yourself at home. Males,
when they come in somewhere and sit down, project an air of transience. Remain suited up and mobile. It's the same whenever
Hal comes in and sits down someplace where people are already gathered. He's aware that they sense he's somehow there only in a
very technical sense, that he's got an air of moment's-notice readiness to leave about him. Boone extends her carton of
TCBY <endnote>288</endnote> toward Longley in an inviting way, even tilting it invitingly back and forth. Longley puffs her cheeks and blows air
out with a fatigued sound. At least three different smells of cologne and skin-cream struggle for primacy in here. Bridget Boone's
free LA Gear shoes are both on their sides from the force of having been almost kicked off her feet. Hal's spit makes a sound
against the bottom of the wastebasket. Jennie Bash has bigger arms than Hal. The Viewing Room is redly dim. Bash asks Unwin
what they're watching.
     Blood Sister: One Tough Nun, one of Himself's few commercial successes, wouldn't have made near the money it made if it
hadn't come out just as InterLace was starting to purchase first-run features for its rental menus and hyping the cartridges with
one-time Spontaneous Disseminations. It was the sort of sleazy-looking shocksploitation film that would have had a two-week run
in multiplex theaters 8 and above and then gone right to the featureless brown boxes of magnetic-video limbo. Hal's critical take
on the film is that Himself, at certain dark points when abstract theory-issues seemed to provide an escape from the far more
wrenching creative work of making humanly true or entertaining cartridges, had made films in certain commercial-type genre
modes that so grotesquely exaggerated the formulaic schticks of the genres that they became ironic metacinematic parodies on the
genres: 'sub/inversions of the genres,' cognoscenti taken in were wont to call them. The metacinematic-parody idea itself was aloof
and over-clever, to Hal's way of thinking, and he's not comfortable with the way Himself always seemed to get seduced by the
very commercial formulae he was trying to invert, especially the seductive formulae of violent payback, i.e. the cathartic
bloodbath, i.e. the hero trying with every will-fiber to eschew the generic world of the stick and fist and but driven by unjust
circumstance back to the violence again, to the cathartic final bloodbath the audience is brought to applaud instead of mourn.
Himself's best in this vein was The Night Wears a Sombrero, a Langesque metaWestern but also a really good Western, with
chintzy homemade interior sets but breathtaking exteriors shot outside Tucson AZ, an ambivalent-but-finaliy-avenging-son story
played out against dust-colored skies and big angles of flesh-colored mountain, plus with minimal splatter, shot men clutching
their chests and falling deliciously sideways, all hats staying on at all times. Blood Sister: One Tough Nun was a supposedly
ironic lampoon of the avenging-cleric splatter-films of the late B.S. '90s. Nor did Himself make any friends on either side of the
Concavity, trying to shoot the thing in Canada.
     Hal tries to imagine the tall slumped tremulous stork-shape of Himself inclined at an osteoporotic angle over digital editing
equipment for hours on end, deleting and inserting code, arranging Blood Sister: One Tough Nun into subversive/inversion, and
can't summon one shadowy idea of what Himself might have been feeling as he patiently labored. Maybe that was the point of the
thing's metasilliness, to have nothing really felt going on. <endnote>289</endnote>
     Jennie Bash has left V.R. 6's door agape, and Idris Arslanian and Todd ('Postal Weight') Possalthwaite and Kent Blott all drift
in and sit Indian-style in a loose hemisphere on the thick carpet between the girls' recumbency and Hal's recumbency, and are
more or less considerately quiet. They all keep their sneakers on. Postal Weight's nose is a massive proboscoid bandaged thing.
Kent Blott wears a sportfisherman's cap with an extremely long bill. That queer faint smell of hot dogs that seems to follow Idris
Arslanian around begins to insinuate itself into the room's colognes. He isn't wearing the rayon handkerchief as a blindfold but
does have it tied around his neck; no one asks him about it. All the littler kids are consummate spectators and are sucked
immediately into Blood Sister's unfolding narrative, and the older females seem to take some kind of psychic cue from the little
boys and subside, too, and watch, until after a while Hal's the only person in the room who isn't 100% absorbed.
      The entertainment's uptake is that a tough biker-chick-type girl from the mean streets of Toronto is found O.D.'d, beaten up,
molested, and robbed of her leather jacket outside the portcullis of a downtown convent and is rescued, nursed, befriended,
spiritually guided, and converted -- 'saved' is the weak entendre made much of in the first act's dialogue -- by a tough-looking
older nun who it turns out, she reveals (the tough older nun), had herself been hauled up out of a life of Harleys, narcotics-dealing
and -addiction by an even tougher even older nun, a nun who had herself been saved by a tough ex-biker nun, and so on. The
latest saved biker-chick becomes a tough and street-smart nun in the same urban order, and is known on the mean streets as Blood
Sister, and wimple or not still rides her Hawg from parish to parish and still knows akido and is not to be fucked with, is the word
on the streets.
      The motivational crux here being that almost this whole order of nuns is staffed by nuns who'd been saved from Toronto's
mean, dead-end streets by other older tougher saved nuns. So, endless novenas later, Blood Sister eventually feels this transitive
spiritual urge to go out and find a troubled adolescent female of her own, to 'save' and bring into the order, thereby discharging her
soul's debt to the old tough nun who'd saved her. Through processes obscure (a Toronto troubled-but-savable-adolescent-girl-
directory of some sort? Bridget Boone cuts wise), Blood Sister eventually takes on a burn-scarred, deeply troubled adolescent
punker-type Toronto girl who is sullen and, yes, reasonably tough, but is also vulnerable and emotionally tormented (the girl's
pink shiny burn-scarred face tends to writhe in misery whenever she thinks Blood Sister's not looking) by the terrible depredations
she's endured as a result of her rapacious and unshakable addiction to crank cocaine, the kind you have to convert and cook up
yourself, and with ether, which is highly combustible, and which people used before somebody found out baking soda and
temperature-flux would do the same thing, which dates the film's B.S. time-period even more clearly than the tough tortured punk
girl's violet stelliform coiffure. <endnote>290</endnote>
      But so Blood Sister eventually gets the girl clean, by nurturing her through Withdrawal in a locked sacristy; and the girl
becomes less sullen by degrees that almost have audible clicks to them -- the girl stops trying to dicky the lock of the
sacramental-wine cabinet, stops farting on purpose during matins and vespers, stops going up to the Trappists who hang around
the convent and asking them for the time and other sly little things to try to make them slip up and speak aloud, etc. A couple
times the girl's face writhes in emotional torment and vulnerability even when Blood Sister's looking. The girl gets a severe and
somewhat lesbianic haircut, and her roots establish themselves as softly brown. Blood Sister, revealing biceps like nobody's
business, beats the girl at arm-wrestling; they both laugh; they compare tattoos: this marks the start of a brutally drawn-out
Getting-to-Know-and-Trust-You montage, a genre-convention, this montage involving Harley-rides at such speeds that the girl
has to keep her hand on Blood Sister's head to keep B.S.'s wimple from flying off, and long conversational walks filmed at wide-
angle, and protracted and basically unwinnable games of charades with the Trappists, plus some quick scenes of Blood Sister find-
ing the girl's Marlboros and dildo-facsimile lighter in the wastebasket, of the girl doing chores unsullenly under B.S.'s grudgingly
approving eye, of candle-lit scripture-study sessions with the girl's finger under each word she reads, of the girl carefully snipping
the last bits of split violet ends from her soft brown hair, of the more senior tough nuns punching Blood Sister's shoulder
approvingly as the girl's eyes start to get that impending-conversion gleam in them, then, finally, of Blood Sister and the girl habit-
shopping, the girl's burned lantern jaw and hairless Promethean brow frozen in a sunlit montage-climax shot under a novitiate
wimple's gull-wings -- all accompanied by -- no kidding -- 'Getting to Know You,' which Hal imagines the Stork justified to
himself as subversively saccharine. This all takes about half an hour. Bridget Boone, of the Indianapolis archdiocese, begins to
declaim briefly on Blood Sister: One Tough Nun's ironic anti-Catholic subthesis -- that the deformed addicted girl's 'salvation'
here seemed simply the exchange of one will-obliterating 'habit' for another, substituting one sort of outlandish head-decoration
for another -- and gets pinched by Jennie Bash and shushed by just about everyone in the room but Hal, who could pass for
asleep except for the brief lists to port over the wastebasket, to spit, and in fact is experiencing some of the radical loss of
concentration that attends THC-Withdrawal and is thinking about another, even more familiar J. O. Incandenza cartridge even
while he watches this one with the other E.T.A.s. This other attention-object is the late Himself's so-called 'inversion' of the
corporate-politics genre, Low-Temperature Civics, an executive-suite soap opera filled with power plays, position-jockeyings,
timid adulteries, martinis, and malignantly pretty female executives in elegant tight-fitting dress-for-successwear who eat their
paunched and muddled male counterparts for political lunch. Hal knows that L-TC wasn't an inversion or lampoon at all, but
derived right from the dark B.S. '8os period when Himself had changed careers from government service to private
entreprenurism, when a sudden infusion of patent-receipts left him feeling post-carrot anhedonic and existentially unmoored, and
Himself took an entire year off to drink Wild Turkey and watch broadcast-television tycoon-operas like Lorimar's Dynasty et al. in
a remote spa off Canada's Northwest coast, where he supposedly met and bonded with Lyle, now of the E.T.A. weight room.
      What's intriguing but unknown to everyone in V.R. 6 is the way Boone's take on Himself's take on the substitution-of-one-
crutch-for-another interpretation of substituting Catholic devotion for chemical dependence is very close to the way many not-yet-
desperate-enough newcomers to Boston AA see Boston AA as just an exchange of slavish dependence on the bottle/pipe for
slavish dependence on meetings and banal shibboleths and robotic piety, an 'Attitude of Platitude,' and use this idea that it's still
slavish dependence as an excuse to stop trying Boston AA, and to go back to the original slavish Substance-dependence, until that
dependence has finally beaten them into such a double-bound desperation that they finally come back in with their faces hanging
off their skulls and beg to be told just what platitudes to shout, and how high to adjust their vacant grins.
      Some Substance-dependent persons, though, have already been so broken by the time they first Come In that they don't care
about stuff like substitution or banality, they'll give their left nut to trade their original dependence in for robotic platitudes and
pep-rally cheer. They're the ones with the gun to their head, the ones who stick and Hang. It remains to be determined whether
Joelle van Dyne, whose first appearance in a James O. Incan-denza project occurred in this very Low-Temperature Civics, is one
of these people who've come into AA/NA shattered enough to stick, but she's starting to I.D. more and more with the
Commitment speakers she hears who did come in shattered enough to know it's get straight or die. A click and a half straight
downhill from E.T.A., Joelle is hitting the Reality Is For People That Can't Handle Drugs Group, a meeting of the NA-splinter
Cocaine Anonymous, <endnote>291</endnote> mostly because the meeting's in the St. Elizabeth's Hospital Grand Rounds Auditorium, just a couple
floors down from where Don Gately, whom she just got done visiting and mopping the massive unconscious forehead of, is lying
in the Trauma Wing in a truly bad way. CA meetings have a long preamble and endless little Xeroxed formalities they read aloud
at the start, is one reason Joelle avoids CA, but the opening stuff is done by the time she gets down and comes in and gets some
burnt urn-bottom coffee and finds an available seat. The only empty seats are in the meeting's back row -- 'Denial Aisle,' the back
rows are usually called -- and Joelle is surrounded by catexic newcomers crossing and uncrossing their legs every few seconds
and sniffing compulsively and looking like they're wearing everything they own. Plus there's the row of standing men -- there's a
certain hard-faced type of male in Boston fellowships who refuses ever to sit for meetings -- standing behind the back row, legs
set wide and arms crossed and talking to each other out the sides of their mouths, and she can tell the standing men are looking at
her bare knees over her shoulder, making little comments about the knees and the veil. She thinks with fearful sentiment <endnote>292</endnote> of
Don Gately, a tube down his throat, torn by fever and guilt and shoulder-pain, offered Demerol by well-meaning but clueless
M.D.s, in and out of delirium, torn, convinced that certain men with hats wished him ill, looking at his room's semi-private ceiling
like it would eat him if he dropped his guard. The big blackboard up on the stage says the Reality Is For People That Can't Handle
Drugs Group welcomes tonight's Commitment speakers, the Freeway Access Group from Mattapan, which is deep in the colored
part of Boston where Cocaine Anonymous tends to be most heavily concentrated. The speaker just starting in at the podium when
Joelle sits down is a tall yellowish colored man with a weightlifter's build and frightening eyes, sloe and a kind of tannin-brown.
He's been in CA seven months, he says. He eschews the normal CA drugologue's macho war-stories and gets right to his Bottom,
his jumping-off place. Joelle can tell he's trying to tell the truth and not just posturing and performing the way so many CAs seem
like they do. His story's full of colored idioms and those annoying little colored hand-motions and gestures, but to Joelle it doesn't
seem like she cares that much anymore. She can Identify. The truth has a kind of irresistible unconscious attraction at meetings, no
matter what the color or fellowship. Even Denial Aisle and the standing men are absorbed by the colored man's story. The colored
man says his thing is he'd had a wife and a little baby daughter at home in Mattapan's Perry Hill Projects, and another baby on the
way. He'd managed to hang on to his menial riveter's-assistant job at Universal Bleacher right up the street from here in Enfield
because his addiction to crank cocaine wasn't everyday; he smoked on your binge-type basis, mostly weekends. Hellacious,
psychopathic, bank-account-emptying binges, though. Like getting strapped to a Raytheon missile and you don't stop till that
missile stops, Jim. He says his wife had got temp work cleaning houses, but when she worked they had to put their little girl in a
day-care that just about ate her day's pay. So his paycheck was like their total float, and his weekend binges with the glass pipe
caused them no end of Financial Insecurity, which he mispronounces. Which brings him to his last binge, the Bottom, which,
predictably, occurred on a payday. This check just had to go for groceries and rent. They were two months back, and there was not
jack-shit in the house in the way of to eat. At a smoke-break at Universal Bleacher he'd made sure and bought just one single vial,
for just a tensky, for a Sunday-night treat after a weekend of abstinence and groceries and quality time with his pregnant wife and
little daughter. The wife and little daughter were to meet him after work right off the bus stop at Brighton Best Savings, right
under the big clock, to 'help' him deposit the paycheck right then and there. He'd let his wife stipulate the meeting at the bank
because he knew in a self-disgusted way even then that there was this hazard of paycheck-type incidents from binges he'd pulled
in the past, and their Financial Insecurity was now whatever word's past the word deep shit, and he knew goddamn well he could
not afford to fuck up this time.
      He says that's how he used to think of it to himself: fucking up.
      He didn't even make it to the bus after clocking out, he said. Two other Holmeses <endnote>293</endnote> in Riveting had three vials each,
which vials they had, like, brandished at him, and he'd kicked in his one vial because two-and-a-third vials v. one thin-ass Sunday-
night vial was only a fucking fool way out of touch with the whole seize-the-opportunity concept could pass that shit up. In short
it was the familiar insanity of money in the pocket and no defense against the urge, and the thought of his woman holding his little
girl in her little knit cap and mittens standing under the big clock in cold March dusk didn't so much get pushed aside as somehow
shrink to a tiny locket-size picture in the center of a part of him he and the Holmeses had set out busily to kill, with the pipe.
      He says he never made the bus. They passed a bottle of rye around the old Ford Mystique one of the Holmeses profiled, and
fired up, right in the car, and after he once fired up with $ in his pocket the fat woman with the little helmet with horns on it done
already like fucking sang, Jim. <endnote>294</endnote>
      The man's hands grip the sides of the podium and he rests his weight on his elbow-locked arms in a way that conveys both
abjection and pluck. He invites the CAs to let's just draw the curtain of charity over the rest of the night's scene, which after the
check-cashing stop got hazy with missile-exhaust anyhow; but so he finally did get home to Mattapan the next morning, Saturday
morning, sick and green-yellow and on that mean post-crank slide, dying for more and willing to kill for more and yet so mortified
and ashamed of having done fucked up (again) that just going up the elevator to their apartment was maybe the bravest thing he'd
ever done, up to that point, he felt.
      It was like 0600 in the A.M. and they weren't there. There was nobody home, and in the sort of way where the place's
emptiness pulsed and breathed. An envelope was slid under the door from the B.H.A.,<endnote>295</endnote> not the salmon color of an Eviction
Notice but a green Last Warning re rent. And he went into the kitchen and opened up the fridge, hating himself for hoping there
was a beer. In the fridge was a jar of grape jelly near-empty and a half a can of biscuit mix, and that, plus a sour empty-fridge
odor, was all, Jim. A little plastic jar of labelless Food-Bank peanut butter so empty its insides had knife-scrapes on the sides and a
little clotted box of salt was all there was in the whole rest of the kitchen.
      But what sent his face clear down off his skull and broke him in two, though, was he said when he saw the Pam-shiny empty
biscuit pan on top of the stove and the plastic rind of the peanut butter's safety-seal wrap on top of the wastebasket's tall pile. The
little locket-picture in the back of his head swelled and became a sharp-focused scene of his wife and little girl and little unborn
child eating what he now could see they must have eaten, last night and this morning, while he was out ingesting their groceries
and rent. This was his cliff-edge, his personal intersection of choice, standing there loose-faced in the kitchen, running his finger
around a shiny pan with not one little crumb of biscuit left in it. He sat down on the kitchen tile with his scary eyes shut tight but
still seeing his little girl's face. They'd ate some charity peanut butter on biscuits washed down with tapwater and a grimace.
      Their apartment was six floors up in Perry Hill's Bldg. 5. The window didn't open but could be broke through with a running
start.
      He didn't kill himself, though, he says. He just got up and walked out. He didn't leave his wife a note. Not nothing. He went
and walked the whole four clicks to Shattuck Shelter in Jamaica Plain. He felt like for sure they'd of been better off without him,
he said. But he said he didn't know why but he didn't kill himself. But he didn't. He figures there was some God-involvement,
sitting there on the floor. He just decided to go to Shattuck and Surrender and get straight and never ever have his little girl's
grimacing face in his hung-over head ever again, James.
      And Shattuck Shelter -- by coincidence -- that usually had a waiting list every March until it got warm, they'd just kicked
out some sorry-ass specimen for defecating in the shower, and they took him, the speaker. He asked for a CA Meeting right away.
And a Shattuck Staff guy called somebody Afro-American with a lot of clean recovered time, and the speaker got taken to his first
CA Meeting. That was 224 days ago tonight. That night, when the colored CA Crocodile dropped him off back at the Shattuck --
after he'd wept in front of other colored men at his first meeting and told men he didn't know from shit about the big clock and
glass pipe and paycheck and the biscuits and his little girl's face -- and after he come back to the Shattuck and got buzzed through
and the buzzer sounded for supper, it turned out -- by coincidence -- that the Saturday-night Shattuck supper was coffee and
peanut butter sandwiches. It was the end of the week and the Shelter's donated food had run out, they only had PB on cheap-ass
white bread and Sunny Square instant coffee, the cheap shit that doesn't even quite dissolve all the way.
      He's got your autodidactic orator's way with emotional dramatic pauses that don't seem affected. Joelle makes another line
down the Styrofoam coffee cup with her fingernail and chooses consciously to believe it isn't affected, the story's emotive drama.
Her eyes feel sandy from forgetting to blink. This always happens when you don't expect it, when it's a meeting you have to drag
yourself to and are all but sure will suck. The speaker's face has lost its color, shape, everything distinctive. Something has taken
the tight ratchet in Joelle's belly and turned it three turns to the good. It's the first time she's felt sure she wants to keep straight no
matter what it means facing. No matter if Don Gately takes Demerol or goes to jail or rejects her if she can't show him the face.
It's the first time in a long time -- tonight, 11/14--Joelle's even considered possibly showing somebody the face.
      After the pause the speaker says all the other sorry motherfuckers in the Shattuck Shelter in there started in to bitching about
what was this shit, peanut butter sandwiches for fucking supper. The speaker says how whatever he silently thanked for just that
particular sandwich he held and chewed, washing it down with gritty Sunny Square coffee, that thing became his Higher Power.
He's now seven-plus months clean. Universal Bleacher let him go, but he's got steady work at Logan, pushing a third-shift mop,
and a Holmes on his crew's also in the Program -- by coincidence. His pregnant wife, it turned out, had gone to a Unwed Mothers
Shelter with Shantel, that night. She was still in there. D.S.S. still wouldn't let him appeal his wife's Restraining Order and see
Shantel, but he got to talk to his little girl on the phone just last month. And he's now straight, from Giving Up and joining the
Freeway Access Group and getting Active and taking the voluntary suggestions of the Fellowship of Cocaine Anonymous. His
wife was due to have her baby around Xmas. He said he didn't know what was going to happen to him or his family. But he says
he has received certain promises from his new family -- the Freeway Access Group of Cocaine Anonymous -- and so he had
certain hope-type emotions about the future, inside. He didn't so much conclude or make obligatory reference to Gratitude or any
of that usual shit as grip the lectern and shrug and say he'd started feeling just last month that the choice he made on the kitchen
floor was the right choice, personally speaking.

