     YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     Tuesday, 3 November, Enfield Tennis Academy: a.m. drills, shower, eat, class, lab, class, class, eat, prescriptive-grammar
exam, lab/class, conditioning run, p.m. drills, play challenge match, play challenge match, upper-body circuits in weight room,
sauna, shower, slump to locker-room floor w/ other players.
     '. . . to even realize what they're sitting there feeling is unhappiness? Or to even feel it in the first place?'
     1640h.: the Comm.-Ad. Bldg.'s males' locker room is full of clean upper-classmen in towels after p.m. matches, the players'
hair wet-combed and shining with Barbicide. Pemulis uses the comb's big-toothed end to get that wide-furrowed look that kids
from Allston favor. Hal's own hair tends to look wet-combed even when it's dry.
     'So,' Jim Troeltsch says, looking around. 'So what do you think?'
     Pemulis lowers himself to the floor by the sinks, leaning up against the cabinet where they keep all the disinfectants. He has
this way of looking warily to either side of him before he says anything. 'Was there like a central point to all that, Troeltsch?'
     'The exam was talking about the syntax of Tolstoy's sentence, not about real unhappy families,' Hal says quietly.
     John Wayne, as do most Canadians, lifts one leg slightly to fart, like the fart was some kind of task, standing at his locker,
waiting for his feet to get dry enough to put on socks.
     There is a silence. Showerheads dribble on tile. Steam hangs. Distant ghastly sounds from T. Schacht over in one of the stalls
off the showers. Everyone stares into the middle distance, stunned with fatigue. Michael Pemulis, who can stand about ten
seconds of communal silence tops, clear his throat deeply and sends a loogie up and back into the sink behind him. The plate
mirrors caught part of its quivering flight, Hal sees. Hal closes his eyes.
     'Tired,' someone exhales.
     Ortho Stice and John ('N.R.') Wayne seem less fatigued than detached; they have the really top player's way of shutting the
whole neural net down for brief periods, staring at the space they took up, hooded in silence, removed, for a moment, from the
connectedness of all events.
     'Right then,' Troeltsch says. 'Pop quiz. Pop test-question. Most crucial difference, for Leith tomorrow, between your historical
broadcast TV set and a cartridge-capable TP.'
      Disney R. Leith teaches E.T.A.'s History of Entertainment I and II as well as certain high-level esoteric Optics things you
needed Permission of Inst. to get into.
      'The Cathodeluminescent Panel. No cathode gun. No phosphenic screen. Two to the screen's diagonal width in cm. lines of
resolution, total.'
      'You mean a high-def. viewer in general, or a specifically TP-component viewer?'
      'No analogs,' Struck says.
      'No snow, no faint weird like ghostly double next to UHF images, no vertical roll when planes fly over.'
      'Analogs v. digitals.'
      'You referring to broadcast as in network versus a TP, or network-plus-cable versus a TP?'
      'Did cable TV use analogs? What, like pre-fiber phones?'
      'It's the digitals. Leith has that word he uses for the shift from analogs to digitals. That word he uses about eleven times an
hour.'
      'What did pre-fiber phones use, exactly?'
      'The old tin-can-and-string principle.' "Seminal." He keeps saying it. "Seminal, seminal."
      'The biggest advance in home communications since the phone he says.'
      'In home entertainment since the TV itself.'
      'Leith might say the Write-Capable CD, for entertainment.'
      'He's hard to pin down if you get him on entertainment qua entertainment.'
      'The Diz'll say use your own judgment,' Pemulis says. 'Axford took it last year. He wants an argument made. He'll skewer you
if you treat it like there's an obvious answer.'
      'Plus there's the InterLace de-digitizer instead of an antenna, with a TP,' Jim Struck says, squeezing at something behind his
ear. Graham ('Yard-guard') Rader is checking his underarm for more hair. Freer and Shaw might be asleep.
      Stice has pulled his towel down slightly and is fingering the deep red abdominal stripe a jock's waistband leaves. 'Boys, I ever
become president, the first thing to go's elastic.'
      Troeltsch pretends to shuffle cards. 'Next item. Next like flash-card. Define acutance. Anybody?'
      'A measure of resolution directly proportional to the resolved ratio of a given pulse's digital code,' Hal says.
      'The Incster has the last word once again,' says Struck. Which invites a chorus:
      The Halster.'
      'Halorama.'
      'Halation.'
      'Halation,' Rader says. 'A halo-shaped exposure-pattern around light sources seen on chemical film at low speed.'
      'That most angelic of distortions.'
      Struck says 'We'll be like vying for the seats all around Inc tomorrow.' Hal shuts his eyes: he can see the page of text right
there, all highlighted, all yellowed up.
      'He can scan the page, rotate it, fold the corner down and clean under his nails with it, all mentally.'
      'Leave him alone,' Pemulis says.
      Freer opens his eyes. 'Do a dictionary-page for us, man, Inc.'
      Stice says 'Leave him be.'
      It's all only half-nasty. Hal is placid about getting his balls smacked around; they all are. He does his share of chops-busting.
Some of the littler kids who take their showers after the upperclassmen are hanging around listening. Hal sits on the floor,
quiescent, chin on his chest, just thinking it's nice finally to breathe and get enough air.