     14 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     A disadvantage of your nasally ingested cocaine being that at a certain point somewhere past the euphoric crest -- if you
haven't got the sense left to stop and just ride the crest, and instead keep going, nasally -- it takes you into regions of almost
interstellar cold and nasal numbness. Randy Lenz's sinuses were frozen against his skull, numb and hung with crystal frost. His
legs felt like they ended at the knees. He was trailing two very small-sized Chinese women as they lugged enormous paper
shopping bags east on Bishop Allen Dr. under Central. His heart sounded like a shoe in the Ennet House basement's dryer. His
heart was beating that loud. The Chinese women scuttled at an amazing rate, given their size and the bags' size. It was c. 2212:30-
40h., smack in the middle of the former Interval of Issues-Resolution. The Chinese women didn't walk so much as scuttle with a
kind of insectile rapidity, and Lenz was heart-pressed to both keep up and seem to casually saunter, numb from the knee down and
the nostril back. They made the turn onto Prospect St. two or a few blocks below Central Square, moving in the direction of Inman
Square. Lenz followed ten or thirty paces behind, eyes on the twine handles of the shopping bags. The Chinese women were about
the size of fire hydrants and moved like they had more than the normal amount of legs, conversing in their anxious and high-
pitched monkey-language. Evolution proved your Orientoid tongues were closer to your primatal languages than not. At first, on
the brick sidewalks of the stretch of Mass. Ave. between Harvard and Central, Lenz had thought they might be following him --
he'd been followed a great deal in his time, and like the well-read Geoffrey D. he knew only too well thank you that the most
fearsome surveillance got carried out by unlikely-looking people that followed you by walking in front of you with small mirrors
in their glasses'
     temples or elaborate systems of cellular communicators for reporting to the Command Center -- or else also by helicopters,
also, that flew too high to see, hovering, the tiny chop of their rotors disguised as your own drumming heart. But after he'd had
success at successfully shaking the Chinese women twice -- the second time so successfully he'd had to tear-ass around through
alleys and vault wooden fences to pick them up again a couple blocks north on Bishop Allen Dr., scuttling along, jabbering --
he'd settled down in his conviction about who was trailing who, here. As in just who had the controlling discretion over the
general situation right here. The ejection from the House, which the ejection had at first seemed like the kiss of a death sentence,
had turned out to maybe be just the thing. He'd tried the Straight On Narrow and for his pains had been threatened and
dismissively sent off; he'd given it his best, and for the most part impressively; and he had been sent Away, Alone, and at least
now could openly hide. R. Lenz lived by his wits out here, deeply disguised, on the amonymous streets of N. Cambridge and
Somerville, never sleeping, ever moving, hiding in bright-lit and public plain sight, the last place They would think to find him.
     Lenz wore fluorescent-yellow snowpants, the slightly shiny coat to a long-tailed tux, a sombrero with little wooden balls
hanging off the brim, oversize tortoise-shell glasses that darkened automatically in response to bright light, and a glossy black
mustache promoted from the upper lip of a mannequin at Lechmere's in Cambridgeside -- the ensemble the result of bold snatch-
and-sprints all up and down the nighttime Charles, when he'd first gone Overground northeast from Enfield several-odd days back.
The absolute blackness of the mannequin's mustache -- very securely attached with promoted Krazy Glue and made even glossier
by the discharge from a nose Lenz can't feel running -- gives his pallor an almost ghostly aspect in the sombrero's portable shade
-- another both advantage and disadvantage of nasal cocaine is that eating becomes otiose and optional, and one forgets to for
extended periods of time, to eat -- in his gaudy pastiche of disguise he passes easily for one of metro Boston's homeless and
wandering mad, the walking dead and dying, and is given a wide berth by all comers. The trick, he's found, is to not sleep or eat,
to stay up and moving at all times, alert in all six directions at all times, heading for under the cover of T-station or enclosed mall
whenever the invisible rotors' cardiac chop betrayed surveillance at altitude.
      He'd got quickly familiarized with Little Lisbon's networks of alleys and transoms and back trash-lots, and its (dwindling)
population of feral cats and dogs. The area was fertile in overhead clocks of banks and churches, dictating movements. He carried
his Browning X444 Serrated in its shoulder-holster strapped inside his one sock just above the spats of the formal footwear he'd
taken off the same A Formal Affair, Ltd. sidewalk display as the tux's coat. His lighter was in a fluorescent zip-uppable slash
pocket; quality trashbags were plentiful in dumpsters and Land Barges stopped at lights. The James Principles of the Gifford
Lectures, its razored-out recep-tacled heart now quite a bit closer to empty than Lenz would be comfortable thinking about
directly, he had in his hand tucked up under one formal arm. And the Chinese women scuttled centipedishly abreast, their
mammoth shopping bags held in a right hand and left, respective, so the bags were side by side between them. Lenz was closing
the gap behind them, but gradually and with no little nonchalant stealth, considering it was hard to walk stealthily when one
couldn't feel one's feet, and when one's eyeglasses darkened automatically whenever one went under a streetlight and then took
their time lightening up again, after, so that no less than two of Lenz's vital sensory street-senses were disorientated; but he still
managed both stealth and nonchalance both. He had no clue how he really looked. Like many of the itinerant mad of metro
Boston, he tended to confuse a wide berth with invisibility. The shopping bags looked heavy and impressive, their weight making
the Chinese women lean in slightly toward each other. Call it 22l4:lOh. The Chinese women and then Lenz all passed a gray-faced
woman squatting back between two dumpsters, her multiple skirts hiked up. Vehicles were packed bumper-flush all along the
curb, with myriad double parking also. The Chinese women passed a man lined up at the curb with a toy bow and arrows, and
when the glasses undarkened Lenz could see him as well as he passed also -- the guy wore a rat-colored suit and was shooting a
suction-cup arrow at the side of a For Lease building and then going up and drawing a miniature chalk circle on the brick around
the arrow, and then another circle around that circle, and etc., as in a what's the word. The women paid him no Orientoid mind.
The suit's string tie was also brown in tone, unlike a rat's tail. His wall's chalk was more pinkish. One of the women said
something high-pitched, like an exclamation to the other. Your monkey-languages' exclamatories have an explosive ricocheting
sound to them. As in a component of boing to every word. A window up across the street was producing The Star-Spanned
Banner all this time. The man had a string tie and fingerless little gloves, and he stepped back from the wall to examine his pink
circles and almost collided with Lenz, and they both looked at each other and shook their heads like Look at this poor son of an
urban bitch I'm on the same street with.
      It was universally well known that your basic Orientoid types carried their earthly sum-total of personal wealth with them at
all times. As in on their person while they scuttled around. The Orientoid religion prohibited banks, and Lenz had seen mammoth
double-width twine-handled shopping bags in too many tiny Chinese women's hands not to have deducted that the Chinese female
species of Oriental used shopping bags to carry their personal wealth. He felt the energy required for the snatch-and-sprint
increasing now with each stride, drawing nonchalantly closer, able now to distinguish different patterns in the clear like plastic
flags they wrapped their little hair in. The Chinese women. His heartrate speedened to a steady warming gallop. He began to feel
his feet. Adrenaline about what would shortly occur dried his nose and helped his mouth stop moving around on his face. The
Frightful Hog was not and never numb, and now it stirred in the snowpants slightly with excitement of wits and the thrill of the
hunt. Far from cutting-edge surveillance: the shoe was on the other foot: the unwitting Oriental women had no idea who they were
dealing with, behind them, no idea he was back there surveilling them and closing the nonchalant gap, stumbling only slightly
after each streetlight's light. He was in total control of this situation. And they did not even know there was a situation. Bull's-eye.
Lenz straightened the mustache with one finger and gave a tiny little Yellow-Brick-Road stutter-skip of pure controlling glee, his
adrenaline invisible for all to see.