     EARLY NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     The only bona fide blackmailable thing about Rodney Tine, Chief, U.S. Office of Unspecified Services: his special metric
ruler. In a locked drawer of his bathroom cabinets at home on Connecticut Ave. NW in the District is kept a special metric ruler,
and Tine measures his penis every A.M., like clockwork; has since twelve; still does. Plus a special telescoping travelling model
of the ruler he travels with, for on-the-road-A.M.-penis-measurement. President Gentle has no N.S.A. <footnote>228</footnote> as such. Tine's in
metro Boston because of the N.S. implications of what they'd first come to Unspecified Services about two summers past, both the
head of D.E.A. and the Chair of the Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences, now both here standing on one foot and then the other
and twidgelling the brims of their hats. This unwatchable underground Entertainment-cartridge that at first seemed to be just
popping haphazardly up in random locales: a film with certain he's given to understand from briefings quote 'qualities' such that
whoever saw it wanted nothing else ever in life but to see it again, and then again, and so on. It had popped up in Berkeley NCA,
in the home of a film-scholar and his male companion, neither of whom had appeared for appointments for days; and now lost to
meaningful human activity henceforward, by all appearances, were the scholar and companion, the two cops dispatched to the
Berkeley home, the six cops dispatched after the two cops never followed up their Code-Five, the watch sergeant and partner
dispatched after them -- seventeen police, paramedics, and teleputer-technicians in all, until the lethality of whatever they'd
caught sight of presented itself with enough clarity for somebody to think to go around back and kill the Berkeley home's power.
The Entertainment had popped up in New Iberia LA. Tempe AZ had lost two-thirds of the attendees of an avant-garde film
festival in Arizona State U.'s Entertainment Studies amphitheater before a level-headed custodian killed the building's whole grid.
J. Gentle had been apprised about the thing only after it had popped up and taken out a diplomatically immune Near Eastern
medical attache and a dozen incidentals here in Boston MA late last spring. These persons now all in wards. Docile and continent
but blank, as if on some deep reptile-brain level pithed. Tine had toured a ward. The persons' lives'
     meanings had collapsed to such a narrow focus that no other activity or connection could hold their attention. Possessed of
roughly the mental/ spiritual energies of a moth, now, according to a diagnostician out of C.D.C. The Berkeley cartridge had
vanished from an S.F.P.D. Evidence Room an electron-microscopy toss of which had revealed flannel fibers. The D.E.A. had lost
four field researchers and a consultant before they'd bowed to the intractable problems involved in trying to have somebody view
the confiscated Tempe cartridge and articulate the thing's lethal charms. The strongest possible language had been necessary to
restrain a certain Famous Crooner from attempting a personal review of the thing's qualities. Neither C.D.C. nor the entertainment
pros wanted any part of any controlled-viewing tests. Three members of the Academy of D.A.S. had received unlabelled copies in
the mail, and the one who'd actually sat down to have a look now needed a receptacle under his chin at all times. Reports of the
thing popping up yet again in metro Boston MA remain unsubstantiated. Tine's been dispatched here in part to coordinate
substantiation. There's also the special pocket-Franklin-Planner-sized chart he charts the daily A.M. penis-measurement in, daily,
though to the uninitiated the little leather notebook could look like almost anything statistical at all. By now several U.S.O. test-
subjects, volunteers from the federal and military penal systems, have been lost in attempts to produce a description of the
cartridge's contents. The Tempe and New Iberia cartridges are in custody, vaulted. A sociopathic and mentally retarded Lance
Corporal at Leaven-worth, strapped down with electrode appliques and headset-recorder, was able to report that the thing
apparently opens with an engaging and high-quality cinematic shot of a veiled woman going through a large building's revolving
doors and catching a glimpse of someone else in the revolving doors, somebody the sight of whom makes her veil billow, before
the subject's mental and spiritual energies abruptly declined to a point where even near-lethal voltages through the electrodes
couldn't divert his attention from the Entertainment. Tine's staff had sifted through dozens of entries before deciding that the
intelligence community's terse little name for the allegedly enslaving Entertainment would be 'the samizdat.' P.E.T.s on sacrificed
subjects revealed unexceptional wave-activity, with not near enough alpha to indicate hypnosis or induced dopamine-surges.
Attempts to trace the matrix of the samizdat without viewing it -- from induction on postal codes, e-micros-copíes on the brown
padded mailers, immolation and chromatography on the unlabelled cartridge-cases, extensive and maddening interviews of those
civilians exposed -- place the likely dissemination-point someplace along the U.S. north border, with routing hubs in metro
Boston/New Bedford and/or somewhere in the desert Southwest. The U.S.'s Canadian Problem is U.S.O.U.S. Anti-Anti-O.N.A.N.
Activities' Agency's <footnote>229</footnote> special province. So to speak. The possibility of Canadian involvement in the lethally compelling
Entertainment's dissemination is what has brought to metro Boston Rodney Tine, his retinue, and his ruler.