     4 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     From Cambridge's Latinate Inman Square, Michael Pemulis, nobody's fool at all, rides one necessary bus to Central Square
and then an unnecessary bus to Davis Square and a train back to Central. This is to throw off the slightest possible chance of
pursuit. At Central he catches the Red Line to Park St. Station, where he's parked the tow truck in an underground lot he can more
than afford. The day is autumnal and mild, the east breeze smelling of urban commerce and the vague suede smell of new-fallen
leaves. The sky is pilot-light blue; sunlight reflects complexly off the smoked-glass sides of tall centers of commerce all around
Park St. downtown. Pemulis wears button-fly chinos and an E.T.A. shirt beneath a snazzy blue Brioni sport-coat, plus the bright-
white yachting cap that Mario Incandenza calls his Mr. Howell hat. The hat looks rakish even when turned around, and it has a
detachable lining. Inside the lining can be kept portable quantities of just about anything. Having indulged in 150 nig. of very mild
'drines, post-transaction. Wearing also gray-and-blue saddle oxfords w/o socks, it's such a mild autumn day. The streets literally
bustle. Vendors with carts instead of tubs sell hot pretzels and tonics and those underboiled franks Pemulis likes to have them put
the works on. You can see the State House and Common and Courthouse and Public Gardens, and beyond all that the cool smooth
facades of Back Bay brownstones. The echoes in the underground Park PL garage -- PARK -- are pleasantly complex. Traffic
westward on Commonwealth Avenue is light (meaning things can move) all the way through Ken-more Square and past Boston
U. and up the long slow hill into Allston and Enfield. When Tavis and Schtitt and the players and ground crew and Testar and
ATHSCME teams inflate the all-weather Lung for the winter over Courts 16-32, the domed Lung's nacelle is visible against the
horizon all the way down by the Brighton Ave.-Comm. Ave. split in lower Allston.
     The incredibly potent DMZ is apparently classed as a para-methoxylated amphetamine but really it looks to Pemulis from his
slow and tortured survey of the MED.COM's monographs more like more similar to the anticholinergic-deliriant class, Way more
powerful than mescaline or MDA or DMA or TMA or MDMA or DOM or STP or the I.V.-ingestible DMT (or Ololiuqui or
datura's scopolamine, or Fluothane, or Bufotenine (a.k.a. 'Jackie-O.'), or Ebene or psilocybin or Cylert <footnote>56</footnote>; DMZ resembling
chemically some miscegenation of a lysergic with a muscimoloid, but significantly different from LSD-25 in that its effects are
less visual and spatially-cerebral and more like temporally-cerebral and almost ontological, with some sort of manipulated-
phenylkylamine-like speediness whereby the ingester perceives his relation to the ordinary flow of time as radically (and
euphorically, is where the muscimole-affective resemblance shows its head) altered. <footnote>57</footnote> The incredibly potent DMZ is
synthesized from a derivative of fitviavi, an obscure mold that grows only on other molds, by the same ambivalently lucky
chemist at Sandoz Pharm. who'd first stumbled on LSD, as a relatively ephebic and clueless organic chemist, while futzing around
with ergotic fungi on rye. DMZ's discovery was the tail-end of the B.S. 1960s, just about the same time Dr. Alan Watts was
considering T. Leary's invitation to become 'Writer in Resonance' at Leary's Utopian LSD-25 colony in Millbrook NY on what is
now Canadian soil. A substance even just the accidental-synthesis of which sent the Sandoz chemist into early retirement and
serious unblinking wall-watching, the incredibly potent DMZ has a popular-lay-chemical-underground reputation as the single
grimmest thing ever conceived in a tube. It is also now the hardest recreational compound to acquire in North America after raw
Vietnamese opium, which forget it.
     DMZ is sometimes also referred to in some metro Boston chemical circles as Madame Psychosis, after a popular very-early-
morning cult radio personality on M.I.T.'s student-run radio station WYYY-109, 'Largest Whole Prime on the FM Band,' which
Mario Incandenza and E.T.A. stats-wienie and Eschaton game-master Otis P. Lord listen to almost religiously.
     The day-shift Ennet House kid at the booth who raises the portcullis to let him onto the grounds had a couple times in October
approached Pemulis about a potential transaction. Pemulis has a rigid policy about not transacting with E.T.A. employees who
come up the hill from the halfway house, since he knows some of them are at the place on Court Order, and knows for a fact they
pull unscheduled Urines all over the place down there, and types like the Ennet House types are just the sorts of people Pemulis's
talents let him get away from in terms of like social milieu and mixing and transacting; and his basic attitude with these low-rent
employees is one of unfoolish discretion and like why tempt fate.
     The East Courts are empty and ball-strewn when Pemulis pulls in; most of them are still at lunch. Pemulis, Troeltsch, and
Schacht's triple-room is in subdorm B in the back north part of the second floor of West House and so superjacent to the Dining
Hall, from which through the floor Pemulis can hear voices and silverware and can smell exactly what they're having. The first
thing he does is boot up the phone console and try Inc and Mario's room over in Comm.-Ad., where Hal is sitting in wíndowlight
with the Riverside Hamlet he told Mario he'd read and help with a conceptual film-type project based on part of, his uncushioned
captain's chair partly under an old print of a detail from the minor and soft-core Alexandrian mosaic Consummation of the
Levirates, eating an AminoPal® energy-bar and waiting very casually, the phone with its antenna already out lying ready on the
arm of the chair and two folio-size Baron's SAT-prep guides and a spine-shot copy of the B.S. 1937 Tilden on Spin and his keys
on their neck-chain lying on the Lindistarne carpet by his shoe, waiting in a very casual posture. Hal deliberately waits till the
audio console's third ring, like a girl at home on Saturday night.
     'Mmyellow.'
     'The turd emergeth.' Pemulis's clear and digitally condensed voice on the line. 'Repeat. The turd emergeth.'
     'Please commit a crime,' is Hal Incandenza's immediate reply.
     'Gracious me,' Pemulis says into the phone tucked under his jaw, carefully de-Velcroing the lining of his Mr. Howell hat.