     YEAR OF GLAD
     I am seated in an office, surrounded by heads and bodies. My posture is consciously congruent to the shape of my hard chair.
This is a cold room in University Administration, wood-walled, Remington-hung, double-windowed against the November heat,
insulated from Administrative sounds by the reception area outside, at which Uncle Charles, Mr. deLint and I were lately received.
     I am in here.
     Three faces have resolved into place above summer-weight sportcoats and half-Windsors across a polished pine conference
table shiny with the spidered light of an Arizona noon. These are three Deans -- of Admissions, Academic Affairs, Athletic
Affairs. I do not know which face belongs to whom.
     I believe I appear neutral, maybe even pleasant, though I've been coached to err on the side of neutrality and not attempt what
would feel to me like a pleasant expression or smile.
     I have committed to crossing my legs I hope carefully, ankle on knee, hands together in the lap of my slacks. My fingers are
mated into a mirrored series of what manifests, to me, as the letter X. The interview room's other personnel include: the
University's Director of Composition, its varsity tennis coach, and Academy prorector Mr. A. deLint. C.T. is beside me; the others
sit, stand and stand, respectively, at the periphery of my focus. The tennis coach jingles pocket-change. There is something
vaguely digestive about the room's odor. The high-traction sole of my complimentary Nike sneaker runs parallel to the wobbling
loafer of my mother's half-brother, here in his capacity as Headmaster, sitting in the chair to what I hope is my immediate right,
also facing Deans.
     The Dean at left, a lean yellowish man whose fixed smile nevertheless has the impermanent quality of something stamped
into uncooperative material, is a personality-type I've come lately to appreciate, the type who delays need of any response from
me by relating my side of the story for me, to me. Passed a packet of computer-sheets by the shaggy lion of a Dean at center, he is
speaking more or less to these pages, smiling down.
     'You are Harold Incandenza, eighteen, date of secondary-school graduation approximately one month from now, attending the
Enfield Tennis Academy, Enfield, Massachusetts, a boarding school, where you reside.' His reading glasses are rectangular, court-
shaped, the sidelines at top and bottom. 'You are, according to Coach White and Dean [unintelligible], a regionally, nationally,
and continentally ranked junior tennis player, a potential O.N.A.N.C.A.A. athlete of substantial promise, recruited by Coach
White via correspondence with Dr. Tavis here commencing .. . February of this year.' The top page is removed and brought
around neatly to the bottom of the sheaf, at intervals. 'You have been in residence at the Enfield Tennis Academy since age
seven.'
     I am debating whether to risk scratching the right side of my jaw, where there is a wen.
     'Coach White informs our offices that he holds the Enfield Tennis Academy's program and achievements in high regard, that
the University of Arizona tennis squad has profited from the prior matriculation of several former E.T.A. alumni, one of whom
was one Mr. Aubrey F. deLint, who appears also to be with you here today. Coach White and his staff have given us --'
     The yellow administrator's usage is on the whole undistinguished, though I have to admit he's made himself understood. The
Director of Composition seems to have more than the normal number of eyebrows. The Dean at right is looking at my face a bit
strangely.
     Uncle Charles is saying that though he can anticipate that the Deans might be predisposed to weigh what he avers as coming
from his possible appearance as a kind of cheerleader for E.T.A., he can assure the assembled Deans that all this is true, and that
the Academy has presently in residence no fewer than a third of the continent's top thirty juniors, in age brackets all across the
board, and that I here, who go by 'Hal,' usually, am 'right up there among the very cream.' Right and center Deans smile
professionally; the heads of deLint and the coach incline as the Dean at left clears his throat:
     '-- belief that you could well make, even as a freshman, a real contribution to this University's varsity tennis program. We are
pleased,' he either says or reads, removing a page, 'that a competition of some major sort here has brought you down and given us
the chance to sit down and chat together about your application and potential recruitment and matriculation and scholarship.'
     'I've been asked to add that Hal here is seeded third, Boys' 18-and-Under Singles, in the prestigious WhataBurger Southwest
Junior Invitational out at the Randolph Tennis Center --' says what I infer is Athletic Affairs, his cocked head showing a freckled
scalp.
     'Out at Randolph Park, near the outstanding El Con Marriott,' C.T. inserts, 'a venue the whole contingent's been vocal about
finding absolutely top-hole thus far, which --'
     'Just so, Chuck, and that according to Chuck here Hal has already justified his seed, he's reached the semifinals as of this
morning's apparently impressive win, and that he'll be playing out at the Center again tomorrow, against the winner of a
quarterfinal game tonight, and so will be playing tomorrow at I believe scheduled for 0830 --'
     'Try to get under way before the godawful heat out there. Though of course a dry heat.'
     '-- and has apparently already qualified for this winter's Continental Indoors, up in Edmonton, Kirk tells me --' cocking
further to look up and left at the varsity coach, whose smile's teeth are radiant against a violent sunburn -- 'Which is something
indeed.' He smiles, looking at me. 'Did we get all that right Hal.'
     C.T. has crossed his arms casually; their triceps' flesh is webbed with mottle in the air-conditioned sunlight. 'You sure did.
Bill.' He smiles. The two halves of his mustache never quite match. 'And let me say if I may that Hal's excited, excited to be
invited for the third year running to the Invitational again, to be back here in a community he has real affection for, to visit with
your alumni and coaching staff, to have already justified his high seed in this week's not unstiff competition, to as they say still be
in it without the fat woman in the Viking hat having sung, so to speak, but of course most of all to have a chance to meet you
gentlemen and have a look at the facilities here. Everything here is absolutely top-slot, from what he's seen.'
     There is a silence. DeLint shifts his back against the room's panelling and recenters his weight. My uncle beams and
straightens a straight watchband. 62.5% of the room's faces are directed my way, pleasantly expectant. My chest bumps like a
dryer with shoes in it. I compose what I project will be seen as a smile. I turn this way and that, slightly, sort of directing the
expression to everyone in the room.
     There is a new silence. The yellow Dean's eyebrows go circumflex. The two other Deans look to the Director of Composition.
The tennis coach has moved to stand at the broad window, feeling at the back of his crewcut. Uncle Charles strokes the forearm
above his watch. Sharp curved palm-shadows move slightly over the pine table's shine, the one head's shadow a black moon.
     'Is Hal all right, Chuck?' Athletic Affairs asks. 'Hal just seemed to ... well, grimace. Is he in pain? Are you in pain, son?'
     'Hal's right as rain,' smiles my uncle, soothing the air with a casual hand. 'Just a bit of a let's call it maybe a facial tic, slightly,
at all the adrenaline of being here on your impressive campus, justifying his seed so far without dropping a set, receiving that
official written offer of not only waivers but a living allowance from Coach White here, on Pac 10 letterhead, being ready in all
probability to sign a National Letter of Intent right here and now this very day, he's indicated to me.' C.T. looks to me, his look
horribly mild. I do the safe thing, relaxing every muscle in my face, emptying out all expression. I stare carefully into the
Kekuléan knot of the middle Dean's necktie.
     My silent response to the expectant silence begins to affect the air of the room, the bits of dust and sportcoat-lint stirred
around by the AC's vents dancing jaggedly in the slanted plane of windowlight, the air over the table like the sparkling space just
above a fresh-poured seltzer. The coach, in a slight accent neither British nor Australian, is telling C.T. that the whole application-
interface process, while usually just a pleasant formality, is probably best accentuated by letting the applicant speak up for
himself. Right and center Deans have inclined together in soft conference, forming a kind of tepee of skin and hair. I presume it's
probably facilitate that the tennis coach mistook for accentuate, though accelerate, while clunkier than facilitate, is from a phonetic
perspective more sensible, as a mistake. The Dean with the flat yellow face has leaned forward, his lips drawn back from his teeth
in what I see as concern. His hands come together on the conference table's surface. His own fingers look like they mate as my
own four-X series dissolves and I hold tight to the sides of my chair.
     We need candidly to chat re potential problems with my application, they and I, he is beginning to say. He makes a reference
to candor and its value.
     'The issues my office faces with the application materials on file from you, Hal, involve some test scores.' He glances down at
a colorful sheet of standardized scores in the trench his arms have made. 'The Admissions staff is looking at standardized test
scores from you that are, as I'm sure you know and can explain, are, shall we say ... subnormal.' I'm to explain.
     It's clear that this really pretty sincere yellow Dean at left is Admissions. And surely the little aviarian figure at right is
Athletics, then, because the facial creases of the shaggy middle Dean are now pursed in a kind of distanced affront, an I'm-eating-
something-that-makes-me-really-appreciate-the-presence-of-whatever-I'm-drinking-along-with-it look that spells professionally
Academic reservations. An uncomplicated loyalty to standards, then, at center. My uncle looks to Athletics as if puzzled. He shifts
slightly in his chair.
     The incongruity between Admissions's hand- and face-color is almost wild. '--verbal scores that are just quite a bit closer to
zero than we're comfortable with, as against a secondary-school transcript from the institution where both your mother and her
brother are administrators --' reading directly out of the sheaf inside his arms' ellipse -- 'that this past year, yes, has fallen off a
bit, but by the word I mean "fallen off" to outstanding from three previous years of frankly incredible.'
     'Off the charts.'
     'Most institutions do not even have grades of A with multiple pluses after it,' says the Director of Composition, his expression
impossible to interpret.
     'This kind of ... how shall I put it... incongruity,' Admissions says, his expression frank and concerned, 'I've got to tell you
sends up a red flag of potential concern during the admissions process.'
     'We thus invite you to explain the appearance of incongruity if not outright shenanigans.' Students has a tiny piping voice
that's absurd coming out of a face this big.
     'Surely by incredible you meant very very very impressive, as opposed to literally quote "incredible," surely,' says C.T.,
seeming to watch the coach at the window massaging the back of his neck. The huge window gives out on nothing more than
dazzling sunlight and cracked earth with heat-shimmers over it.
     'Then there is before us the matter of not the required two but nine separate application essays, some of which of nearly
monograph-length, each without exception being --' different sheet -- 'the adjective various evalua-tors used was quote "stellar"
--'
     Dir. of Comp.: 'I made in my assessment deliberate use of lapidary and effete.'
     '-- but in areas and with titles, I'm sure you recall quite well, Hal: "Neoclassical Assumptions in Contemporary Prescriptive
Grammar," "The Implications of Post-Fourier Transformations for a Holographically Mimetic Cinema," "The Emergence of
Heroic Stasis in Broadcast Entertainment" --'
     ' "Montague Grammar and the Semantics of Physical Modality"?'
     ' "A Man Who Began to Suspect He Was Made of Glass"?'
     ' "Tertiary Symbolism in Justinian Erotica"?'
     Now showing broad expanses of recessed gum. 'Suffice to say that there's some frank and candid concern about the recipient
of these unfortunate test scores, though perhaps explainable test scores, being these essays' sole individual author.'
     'I'm not sure Hal's sure just what's being implied here,' my uncle says. The Dean at center is fingering his lapels as he
interprets distasteful computed data.
     'What the University is saying here is that from a strictly academic point of view there are admission problems that Hal needs
to try to help us iron out. A matriculant's first role at the University is and must be as a student. We couldn't admit a student we
have reason to suspect can't cut the mustard, no matter how much of an asset he might be on the field.'
     'Dean Sawyer means the court, of course, Chuck,' Athletic Affairs says, head severely cocked so he's including the White
person behind him in the address somehow. 'Not to mention O.N.A.N.C.A.A. regulations and investigators always snuffling
around for some sort of whiff of the smell of impropriety.'
     The varsity tennis coach looks at his own watch.
     'Assuming these board scores are accurate reflectors of true capacity in this case,' Academic Affairs says, his high voice
serious and sotto, still looking at the file before him as if it were a plate of something bad, Til tell you right now my opinion is it
wouldn't be fair. It wouldn't be fair to the other applicants. Wouldn't be fair to the University community.' He looks at me. 'And
it'd be especially unfair to Hal himself. Admitting a boy we see as simply an athletic asset would amount to just using that boy.
We're under myriad scrutiny to make sure we're not using anybody. Your board results, son, indicate that we could be accused of
using you.'
     Uncle Charles is asking Coach White to ask the Dean of Athletic Affairs whether the weather over scores would be as heavy
if I were, say, a revenue-raising football prodigy. The familiar panic at feeling misperceived is rising, and my chest bumps and
thuds. I expend energy on remaining utterly silent in my chair, empty, my eyes two great pale zeros. People have promised to get
me through this.
     Uncle C.T., though, has the pinched look of the cornered. His voice takes on an odd timbre when he's cornered, as if he were
shouting as he receded. 'Hal's grades at E.T.A., which is I should stress an Academy, not simply a camp or factory, accredited by
both the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the North American Sports Academy Association, it's focused on the total needs of
the player and student, founded by a towering intellectual figure whom I hardly need name, here, and based by him on the
rigorous Oxbridge Quadrivium-Trivium curricular model, a school fully staffed and equipped, by a fully certified staff, should
show that my nephew here can cut just about any Pac 10 mustard that needs cutting, and that --'
     DeLint is moving toward the tennis coach, who is shaking his head.
     '-- would be able to see a distinct flavor of minor-sport prejudice about this whole thing,' C.T. says, crossing and recrossing
his legs as I listen, composed and staring.
     The room's carbonated silence is now hostile. T think it's time to let the actual applicant himself speak out on his own behalf,'
Academic Affairs says very quietly. 'This seems somehow impossible with you here, sir.'
     Athletics smiles tiredly under a hand that massages the bridge of his nose. 'Maybe you'd excuse us for a moment and wait
outside, Chuck.'
     'Coach White could accompany Mr. Tavis and his associate out to reception,' the yellow Dean says, smiling into my
unfocused eyes.
     '-- led to believe this had all been ironed out in advance, from the --' C.T. is saying as he and deLint are shown to the door.
The tennis coach extends a hypertrophied arm. Athletics says 'We're all friends and colleagues here.'
     This is not working out. It strikes me that exit signs would look to a native speaker of Latin like red-lit signs that say HE
leaves. I would yield to the urge to bolt for the door ahead of them if I could know that bolting for the door is what the men in this
room would see. DeLint is murmuring something to the tennis coach. Sounds of keyboards, phone consoles as the door is briefly
opened, then firmly shut. I am alone among administrative heads.
     '-- offense intended to anyone,' Athletic Affairs is saying, his sportcoat tan and his necktie insigniated in tiny print -- 'beyond
just physical abilities out there in play, which believe me we respect, want, believe me.'
     '-- question about it we wouldn't be so anxious to chat with you directly, see?'
     '-- that we've known in processing several prior applications through Coach White's office that the Enfield School is
operated, however impressively, by close relations of first your brother, who I can still remember the way White's predecessor
Maury Klamkin wooed that kid, so that grades' objectivity can be all too easily called into question --'
     'By whomsoever's calling -- N.A.A.U.P., ill-willed Pac 10 programs, O.N.A.N.C.A.A. --'
     The essays are old ones, yes, but they are mine; de moi. But they are, yes, old, not quite on the application's instructed subject
of Most Meaningful Educational Experience Ever. If I'd done you one from the last year, it would look to you like some sort of
infant's random stabs on a keyboard, and to you, who use whomsoever as a subject. And in this new smaller company, the
Director of Composition seems abruptly to have actuated, emerged as both the Alpha of the pack here and way more effeminate
than he'd seemed at first, standing hip-shot with a hand on his waist, walking with a roll to his shoulders, jingling change as he
pulls up his pants as he slides into the chair still warm from C.T.'s bottom, crossing his legs in a way that inclines him well into
my personal space, so that I can see multiple eyebrow-tics and capillary webs in the oysters below his eyes and smell fabric-
softener and the remains of a breath-mint turned sour.
     '. . . a bright, solid, but very shy boy, we know about your being very shy, Kirk White's told us what your athletically built if
rather stand-offish younger instructor told him,' the Director says softly, cupping what I feel to be a hand over my sportcoat's
biceps (surely not), 'who simply needs to swallow hard and trust and tell his side of the story to these gentlemen who bear no
maliciousness none at all but are doing our jobs and trying to look out for everyone's interests at the same time.'
     I can picture deLint and White sitting with their elbows on their knees in the defecatory posture of all athletes at rest, deLint
staring at his huge thumbs, while C.T. in the reception area paces in a tight ellipse, speaking into his portable phone. I have been
coached for this like a Don before a RICO hearing. A neutral and affectless silence. The sort of all-defensive game Schtitt used to
have me play: the best defense: let everything bounce off you; do nothing. I'd tell you all you want and more, if the sounds I made
could be what you hear.
     Athletics with his head out from under his wing: '-- to avoid admission procedures that could be seen as primarily athletics-
oriented. It could be a mess, son.'
     'Bill means the appearance, not necessarily the real true facts of the matter, which you alone can fill in,' says the Director of
Composition.

    '-- the appearance of the high athletic ranking, the subnormal scores, the over-academic essays, the incredible grades
vortexing out of what could be seen as a nepotistic situation.'
    The yellow Dean has leaned so far forward that his tie is going to have a horizontal dent from the table-edge, his face sallow
and kindly and no-shit-whatever:
    'Look here, Mr. Incandenza, Hal, please just explain to me why we couldn't be accused of using you, son. Why nobody could
come and say to us, why, look here, University of Arizona, here you are using a boy for just his body, a boy so shy and withdrawn
he won't speak up for himself, a jock with doctored marks and a store-bought application.'
      The Brewster's-Angle light of the tabletop appears as a rose flush behind my closed lids. I cannot make myself understood. 'I
am not just a jock,' I say slowly. Distinctly. 'My transcript for the last year might have been dickied a bit, maybe, but that was to
get me over a rough spot. The grades prior to that are de moi.' My eyes are closed; the room is silent. 'I cannot make myself
understood, now.' I am speaking slowly and distinctly. 'Call it something I ate.'


