

     9 MAY -- YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     Another way fathers impact sons is that sons, once their voices have changed in puberty, invariably answer the telephone with
the same locutions and intonations as their fathers. This holds true regardless of whether the fathers are still alive.
     Because he left his dormitory room before 0600 for dawn drills and often didn't get back there until after supper, packing his
book bag and knapsack and gear bag for the whole day, together with selecting his best-strung racquets -- it all took Hal some
time. Plus he usually collected and packed and selected in the dark, and with stealth, because his brother Mario was usually still
asleep in the other bed. Mario didn't drill and couldn't play, and needed all the sleep he could get.
     Hal held his complimentary gear bag and was putting different pairs of sweats to his face, trying to find the cleanest pair by
smell, when the telephone console sounded. Mario thrashed and sat up in bed, a small hunched shape with a big head against the
gray light of the window. Hal got to the console on the second ring and had the transparent phone's antenna out by the third.
     His way of answering the phone sounded like 'Mmmyellow.'
     'I want to tell you,' the voice on the phone said. 'My head is filled with things to say.'
     Hal held three pairs of E.T.A. sweatpants in the hand that didn't hold the phone. He saw his older brother succumb to gravity
and fall back limp against the pillows. Mario often sat up and fell back still asleep.
     'I don't mind,' Hal said softly. 'I could wait forever.'
     'That's what you think,' the voice said. The connection was cut. It had been Orin.
     'Hey Hal?'
     The light in the room was a creepy gray, a kind of nonlight. Hal could hear Brandt laughing at something Kenkle had said, off
down the hall, and the clank of their janitorial buckets. The person on the phone had been O.
     'Hey Hal?' Mario was awake. It took four pillows to support Mario's oversized skull. His voice came from the tangled
bedding. 'Is it still dark out, or is it me?'
     'Go back to sleep. It isn't even six.' Hal put the good leg into the sweatpants first.
     'Who was it?'
     Shoving three coverless Dunlop widebodies into the gear bag and zipping the bag partway up so the handles had room to stick
out. Carrying all three bags back over to the console to deactivate the ringer on the phone. He said, 'No one you know, I don't
think.'

