

     10 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     The following things in the room were blue. The blue checks in the blue-and-black-checked shag carpet. Two of the room's
six institutional-plush chairs, whose legs were steel tubes bent into big ellipses, which wobbled, so that while the chairs couldn't
really be rocked in they could be sort of bobbed in, which Michael Pemulis was doing absently as he waited and scanned a
printout of Eschaton's highly technical core ESCHAX directory, i.e. bobbing in his chair, which produced a kind of rapid rodential
squeaking that gave Hal Incandenza the howling fantods as he sat there kitty-corner from Pemulis, also waiting. The printout kept
rotating in Pemulis's hands. Each chair had a 105-watt reading lamp attached to the back on a flexible metal stalk that let the
reading lamp curve out from behind and shine right down on whatever magazine the waiting person was looking at, but since the
curved lamps induced this unbearable sensation of somebody feverish right there reading over your shoulder, the magazines (some
of whose covers involved the color blue) tended to stay unread, and were fanned neatly out on a low ceramic coffeetable. The
carpet was a product of something called Antron. Hal could see streaks of lividity where some-body'd vacuumed against the grain.
     Though the magazines' coffeetable was nonblue -- a wet-nail-polish red with E.T.A. in a kind of gray escutcheon -- two of
the unsettlingly attached lamps that kept its magazines unread and neatly fanned were blue, although the two blue lamps were not
the lamps attached to the two blue chairs. Dr. Charles Tavis liked to say that you could tell a lot about an administrator by the
decor of his waiting room. The Headmaster's waiting room was part of a little hallway in the Comm.-Ad. lobby's southwest
corner. The premie violets in an asymmetrical sprig in a tennis-ball-shaped vase on the coffee-table were arguably in the blue
family. And also the overenhanced blue of the wallpaper's sky, which the wallpaper scheme was fluffy cumuli arrayed
patternlessly against an overenhancedly blue sky, incredibly disorienting wallpaper that was by an unpleasant coincidence also the
wallpaper in the Enfield offices of a Dr. Zegarelli, D.D.S., which Hal's just come back from, after a removal: the left side of his
face still feels big and dead, with this persistent sensation that he's drooling without being able to feel it or stop it. No one's sure
what C.T.'s choice of this wallpaper is supposed to communicate, especially to parents who come with prospective kids in tow to
scout out E.T.A., but Hal loathes sky-and-cloud wallpaper because it makes him feel high-altitude and disoriented and sometimes
plummeting.
     The sills and crosspieces of the waiting room's two windows have always been dark blue. There was a nautical-blue border of
braid around the bill of Michael Pemulis's jaunty yachting cap. Hal was confident Pemulis would remove the insouciant hat the
minute they were called in on what was presumably going to be the carpet.
     Also blue: the upper-border slices of sky in the framed informal photos of E.T.A. students that hung on the walls; <endnote>209</endnote> the
chassis of Alice Moore's Intel 972 word processor w/ modem but no cartridge-capability; also Ms. Moore's fingertips and lips. The
E.T.A. Headmaster's receptionist and administrative assistant is known to the players as Lateral Alice Moore. In her youth Lateral
Alice Moore had been a helicopter pilot and airborne traffic reporter for a major Boston radio station until a tragic collision with
another station's airborne traffic-report helicopter -- plus then the cataclysmic fall to the rush hour's Jamaica Way six-laner below
-- had left her with chronic oxygen debt and a neurological condition whereby she was able to move only from side to side. So
hence the sobriquet Lateral Alice Moore. An effective time-killer while sitting there waiting for whatever administrator's
summoned you is to have Lateral Alice Moore drum rapidly on her chest and give imitations of her old Boston rush-hour traffic
reports in a stuttered helicopterish reporter-voice. Neither Hal, continually checking his chin for drool, nor Pemulis, scanning and
bobbing, nor Ann Kittenplan nor Trevor Axford -- about whom there was today not even a hint of the color blue -- are in the
mood for this right now, awaiting what they presume to be some kind of administrative fallout from Sunday's horrendous
Eschaton fiasco. The presumption is based on who's been summoned here, to wait.
     The two different-sized offices that open off the waiting room (through the open and only other door of which the dusky blue
Mannington shag of the Comm.-Ad. lobby is visible) belong to Dr. Charles Tavis and to Mrs. Avril Incandenza. Tavis's office's
outer door is real oak and has his name and degree and title in (nonblue) letters so big that the total I.D. crowds the door's margins.
There's also an inner door.
     Avril, whose feelings about enclosure are well known, has no door on her office. Her office is bigger than C.T.'s, though, and
has a seminar table it's always been obvious he covets. Avril's office's blue-and-black-checkered shag is deeper than the waiting
room's shag, so that the border between the two is like a mowed v. unmowed lawn. Avril serves (pro bono) as E.T.A.'s Dean of
Academic Affairs and Dean of Females. She's in there unenclosed right now with pretty much every E.T.A. female under thirteen
except Ann Kittenplan, whose tattooed knuckles are bruised and who looks somehow cross-dressed in a dress and (nonblue)
barrette. Avril has vividly white hair -- as of the last few months before Himself's felo de se -- that looks like it never went
through the gray stage (it mostly didn't) and legs whose taper you can see T. Axford is appraising with the frankness of
adolescence as she paces a bit in front of the crowded seminar table, in full if kind of oblique-angled view of the people in the
waiting room. <endnote>210</endnote> Though it's not technically in the waiting room with Hal, the plastic fine-tip felt pen Avril taps
professionally against her incisors as she paces and considers is: blue.
     Administrative diddle-checks have been required at all North American tennis academies since the infamous case of coach R.
Bill ('Touchy') Phiely at California's Rolling Hills Academy, whose hair-raising diary and collection of telephotos and tiny panties
-- discovered only after his disappearance into the Humboldt County hill country with a thirteen-year-old companion -- created
what might be conservatively termed a climate of concern among the continent's tennis parents. At the Enfield Tennis Academy,
for the last four years, Dr. Dolores Rusk is supposed to hold a kind of distaff community meeting with all female players judged
naive and mop-petish enough to be potential diddlees -- the youngest of these is Rhode Island's pint-sized Tina Echt, just seven
but a true cannibal off the backhand side -- to interface in a discreet but nurturingly empowering group setting, etc., and nip any
potential Phielyisms in the bud. Monthly diddle-checks are in Rusk's contract because they're in E.T.A.'s O.N.A.N.T.A.
accreditation-charter.
     Dean of Females Avril M. Incandenza presides over the diddle-check when Dr. Rusk is otherwise engaged, and Rusk is so
very rarely legitimately engaged that the fact that it's the Moms doing diddle-prevention duty today leads Hal to fear that Rusk is
maybe in there in the Headmaster's office getting ready to be in on the upcoming disciplinary scene: C.T. would have to be really
upset to want to have Rusk included; Rusk might be there more for C.T. than for any studential psyches.
     Axhandle has his eyes closed and is repeating a mnemonic limerick about Brewster's Angle for the Leith-taught Quadrivial
colloquium 'Reflections on Refraction.' Michael Pemulis is still scanning a serrated scroll of EndStat-axiomatic Pink2, which
looks to be all math and spiky brackets, and bobbing, ignoring Ann Kittenplan's murderous looks and tubercular throat-clearings
at the squeaking of his bobbing blue chair. You can tell Pemulis really is studying because he keeps turning something upside-
down and then rightside-up. Hal declines to share his Rusk-being-in-there-with-Tavis worries with Michael Pemulis, not just
because Hal avoids ever mentioning Rusk's name but also because Pemulis loathes Rusk with a hard and gem-like flame, and
though he'd never admit it is already clearly nauseated with worry that he's going to get the lion's share of the blame for damage to
Lord and Possalthwaite and not only receive corrective on-court discipline but maybe get denied a spot on the trip to Tucson's
WhataBurger, or worse. <endnote>211</endnote>
     Avril is indirect but syntactically crisp with the couple dozen little girls in there, probing. The girls' outfits involve blue at
many levels of hue and intensity in varied combination. Avril Incandenza's voice is higher on the register than one would expect
from a woman so imposingly tall. It is high and sort of airy. Oddly insubstantial, is the E.T.A. consensus. Orin says one reason
Avril dislikes music is that whenever she hums along she sounds insane.
     The absence of a door to the Moms's office means you might as well be in there, in terms of being able to hear what's going
on. She has little sense of spatial privacy or boundary, having been so much alone so much when a child. Lateral Alice Moore
wears a sort of surreal combination of black Lycra Spandex and filmy green tulle. The portable-stereo headphones she wears --
entering what appear to be Response-macros for 80+ received invitations to next week's WhataBurger Invitational -- are powder-
blue. Her typing is clearly in synch with something's backbeat. Her lips and cheek-points are the vague robin's-egg of cyanosis.
     Just why Michael Pemulis hates Dr. Rusk is unclear and seems free-floating; Hal gets a different answer from Pemulis every
time. Hal himself feels uncomfortable around Dolores Rusk and avoids her but isn't aware of any particular reason for being
uncomfortable around her. But Pemulis positively detests Rusk. It was Pemulis who'd dickied in at night and hooked a Delco
battery up to the inside brass knob of her locked office door, at age fifteen, Rusk's office door, the first door over in the other little
hallway at the lobby's NE corner, next to the shift-nurses' office and infirmary, then exiting Rusk's office by a window and thorny
hedge, which Pemulis was extremely fortunate no one but Hal and Schacht and maybe Mario knew he authored the hot knob,
because the whole scheme turned quickly disastrous, because it was an elderly Brighton-Irish cleaning lady who got to the hot
knob first, at like 0500h., and it turned out Pemulis had seriously under-calculated the brass-conducted Delco voltage involved,
and if the cleaning lady hadn't been wearing yellow rubber cleaning-lady gloves she would have ended up with way worse than
the permanent perm and irreversible crossed eyes she regained consciousness with, and the cleaning lady's Ward Boss was upper
Brighton's infamous F. X. ('Follow That Ambulance') Byrne, rapacious personal-injury J.D., and the Academy's Workman's
Comp. premiums had skyrocketed, and the whole thing was still in litigation.
     Avril had eschewed an office door even before the cleaning-lady kert-wang, for simple enclosure-reasons.
     Recrossed legs and closer inspection reveal that Trevor Axford's left sock, though not his right sock, is blue.
     Sinistral, his right hand missing digits from a fireworks accident three Interdependence Days past, Axhandle is several cm.
shorter than Hal Incan-denza and is a true redheaded person, with copper-colored hair and that moist white freckle-chocked skin
that even through two layers of summer Pledge only reddens and peels, plus there's the matter of the enormous and forever
chapped lips; and as a tennis player he is like a less effective version of John Wayne -- he does nothing but blast from the
baseline, w/o discernible spin. He's a junior from Short Beach CT and under enormous family pressure to continue the male
Axford tradition of attending Yale and is academically so marginal that he knows his only chance to go to Yale is to play tennis
for Yale, which would effectively blow any chance at a Show-level future, and is high-ranked but has set his competitive sights on
nothing past a Ride-offer to Yale. Though Ingersoll's informally in Hal's Big Buddy contingent, he's technically in Axhandle's,
they're both aware; and Hal's a little uncomfortable about his relief that none of the real Eschaton casualties were technically his
Buddies.<endnote>212</endnote> The only real thing Axford and Hal have in common on the court is a curious habit of refusing to ask for help
from other courts when their balls go astray. <endnote>213</endnote>
     Pemulis has finally quit with the bobbing and folded the printout scroll of Pink2 into a big ragged square and has sidled over
to Lateral Alice Moore's horseshoe-shaped desk and is bantering with her very casually, looking all around him as he banters,
trying subtly to feel her out re whether maybe one of these WhataBurger Jr. Invitational invitations stacked cruciform, female
athwart male, in Lateral Alice's IN box concerns anybody with the male initials M.M.P., by any chance. Pemulis and Moore
would be less tight if she knew he dickied in at night and used her WATS and modem, though she's very laid-back and easygoing
and not at all like the little framed thing by her name plaque with a scowling woman saying I'VE GOT ONE NERVE LEFT AND
YOU'RE GETTING ON IT. The little cartoon is just a standard like office-worker gag. She'd summoned them out of Sixth Hour
with the same ancient intercom-and-mike system Troeltsch et al. get to commandeer for Saturdays' WETA (Troeltsch has had to
be prohibited from playing with her chair), and her transmitted voice had not been ungentle. Hal's face's left side feels queerly
inflated, but then when he runs his right hand over it it's always regulation-size. Administrative assistants worth their health
benefits are synaptically evolved to the point where they can banter, accept compliments on a Spandex-and-tulle ensemble,
effortlessly deflect unauthorized info-probes, listen to something bass-intensive on personal-stereo headphones, and word-process
effortlessly to the headphones' backbeat, all simultaneously. Lateral Alice Moore's bluish fingertips make her painted nails ten
little sunsets. Lateral Alice Moore's desk's chair's wheels fit on a track with an electrified third rail, so she can slide from one
corner of the horseshoe's arc to the other -- more or less laterally -- at the touch of a cerise desktop button. For post-Delco-
incident legal reasons, the name-plaque on her reception desk has DANGER: THIRD RAIL instead of the name Lateral Alice
Moore.
      Hal can hear Avril saying 'Now. If I speak to all of you very gently about being touched by a tall person in an uncomfortable
way, will you know what I mean? Have any of you been kissed or nuzzled or hugged or rubbed or pinched or probed or fondled or
in any way touched by a tall person in a way that's made you uncomfortable?' Hal can see one of his Moms's stockinged legs,
terminating in a trim ankle and a very white Reebok, extruding from stage-right into the frame of the empty doorway, the Reebok
tapping patiently, and one arm crossed over Avril's chest, and the other arm's elbow resting on that arm and fluttering in and out of
view as Avril taps at her teeth with a blue pen.
      'Gramma pinches my cheek,' one girl volunteers. She'd actually raised her hand to be called on, her wrist with its touching
little (blue) terry wristband. Hal hasn't seen so many pigtails and button noses and small berry-shaped mouths convened in one
indoor place in who knows how long. Very few of the sneakered feet reach all the way to the thick shag in there. Much leg-
dangling and absent uncomfortable sneaker-swinging. A couple fingers in nostrils in absent contemplation. Ann Kittenplan, in her
blue chair, is coolly appraising the little wash-offable tattoos she applies daily to the knuckles of her hands.
      'Not quite what we're trying to speak of together right now, Erica,' from someplace above the tapping foot and in-and-out arm.
Hal knows the register and inflections of his mother's voice so well it almost makes him uncomfortable. His left ankle gives a sick
squeak when he flexes it. Cords in his left forearm stand out and subside as he squeezes his tennis ball. The left side of his face
feels like something far away that means him harm and is coming gradually closer. He can make out just the whistly fricatives of
Charles Tavis's distant voice from behind his double office doors; it sounds somehow like he's speaking to more than one person
in there. Charles Tavis's office's inner door also has the I.D. DR. CHARLES TAVIS on it, and below that his E.T.A. motto about
the man who knows his limitations having none.
      'She does it really hard,' rebuts what must be Erica Siress.
      'I've seen her do it,' what sounds like Jolene Criess confirms.
      Another: 'I hate that.'
      'I hate it when some adult pats my head like I'm a schnauzer.'
      'The next adult that calls me adorable is in for a really unpleasant surprise let me tell you.'
      'I hate it when my hair is tousled or smoothed in any way.'
      'Kittenplan's tall. Kittenplan gives Indian rub-burns after lights-out.'
      Avril gives them verbal space, tries gently to steer the topic closer to true Phielyism; she's subtle and very good with small
children.
      '. . . that my daddy gives me these small little shoves in the small of the back when he wants me to go into rooms. It's like he
influences me into rooms from behind. This tiny little irritating push, that makes me want to let him have it in the shin.'
      'Mmmmmm-hmm,' Avril muses.
      It's impossible not to overhear, because things out in the waiting room right now are so comparatively silent except for the
tinny hiss of Lateral Alice Moore's disengaged headphones and the conspiratorial murmur of Michael Pemulis trying to get her to
drum on her chest and describe 1-93 South's Neponset exit-ramp as one very long thin parking lot. Things are so quiet because the
anxiety level in Tavis's waiting room is high.
      'You're all in for some serious Pukers is my prediction,' Ann Kittenplan had said to Pemulis as they all first answered the
intercom's summons, which was also about the time that Pemulis started in with the rodential chair-squeaking that made one half
of Kittenplan's face spasm.
      One of the tricky and sinister things about corrective discipline at a tennis academy is that punishments can take the form of
what might look like straight-out athletic conditioning. Q.v. the drill sergeant telling the recruit to drop and give him fifty, etc. So
but this is why Gerhardt Schtitt and his prorectors are way more feared than Ogilvie or Richardson-Levy-O'Byrne-Chawaf or any
of the regular academics. It's not just that Schtitt's corporal reputation preceded him here. It's that Schtitt and deLint make out the
daily schedules for A.M. drills and P.M. matches and resistance-training and conditioning runs. But especially the A.M. drills.
Certain drills are well known to be nothing more than attitude-adjusters, designed to do nothing but dramatically lower life-quality
for a few minutes. Too brutal to be assigned on the daily basis that would contribute to genuine aerobic conditioning, drills like
the disciplinary version of Tap & Whack <endnote>214</endnote> are known to the kids simply as Pukers. Puker-drills are really meant to do
nothing but hurt you and make you think long and hard before repeating whatever you did to merit them; but they're still to all
outward appearances exempt from any kind of VIII-Amendment protest or sniveling calls home to parents, insidiously, since they
can be described to parents and police <endnote>215</endnote> alike as just drills assigned for your overall cardiovascular benefit, with all the
actual sadism completely sub rosa.
      Kittenplan's prediction that the upperclassmen are going to wear the whole brown helmet for the Eschaton free-for-all is
hopefully rebuttable by Pemulis's observation that Eschaton's extracurricular impulse and structure had been firmly in place before
any of them'd even enrolled. All Michael Pemulis had done was codify basic principles and impose a sort of matrix of decidable
strategy. Maybe helped create a mythology and established, mostly through personal example, a certain level of expectation. All
Hal'd done was act as amanuensis on a lousy manual. The I.-Day Combatants had been out there of their own volition. Pemulis
and Axford'd gotten Hal to write out most of all this in maximally rhetorical diction, which Pemulis had then embedded in a Pink2
printout so he could carry it around and study it and have it all nailed down before Tavis tried any boom-lowering. The strategy is
to let Pemulis do all the talking but let Hal interject at will, the voice of reason, good-cop/bad. Axford's been instructed to count
the An-tron fibers between his shoes the whole time they're in there.
     Hal has no idea what it might signify that the Headmaster's summons hasn't come for almost 48 hours. It might be odd that it
hadn't once occurred to him to see Tavis personally, or to go to HmH and ask the Moms for intercession or info. It's not like he
had the urge but resisted it; it hadn't even occurred to him.
     For somebody who not only lives on the same institutional grounds as his family but also has his training and education and
pretty much his whole overall raíson-d'être directly overseen by relatives, Hal devotes an unusually small part of his brain and
time ever thinking about people in his family qua family-members. Sometimes when he'll be chatting with somebody in the
endless registration-line for a tournament or at a post-meet dance or something and somebody'll say something like 'How's Avril
getting along?' or 'I saw Orin kicking the everliving shit out of the ball on an O.N.A.N.F.L. highlights cartridge last week,' there
will be this odd tense moment where Hal's mind will go utterly blank and his mouth slack and flabby, working soundlessly, as if
the names were words on the tip of his tongue. Except for Mario, about whom Hal will talk your ear off, it's almost like some pon-
derous creaky machine has to get up and running for Hal even to think about members of his immediate family as standing in
relation to himself. It's a possible reason Hal avoids Dr. Dolores Rusk, who always wants to probe him on issues of space and self-
definition and something she keeps calling the 'Coatlicue Complex.' <endnote>216</endnote>
     Hal's maternal half-uncle Charles Tavis is a little like the late Himself in that Tavis's C.V. is a back-and-forth but not
indecisive mix of athletics and hard science. A B.A. and doctorate in engineering, an M.B.A. in athletics administration -- in his
professional youth Tavis had put them together as a civil engineer, his specialty the accommodation of stress through patterned
dispersal, i.e. distributing the weight of gargantuan athletic-spectatorial crowds. I.e., he'd say, he'd handled large live audiences;
he'd been in his own small way a minor pioneer in polymer-reinforced cement and mobile fulcra. He'd been on design teams for
stadia and civic centers and grandstands and micological-looking superdomes. He'd admit up-front that he'd been a far better
team-player engineer than out there up-front stage-center in the architectural limelight. He'd apologize profusely when you had no
idea what that sentence meant and say maybe the obfuscation had been unconsciously deliberate, out of some kind of
embarrassment over his first and last limelighted architectural supervision, up in Ontario, before the rise of O.N.A.N.ite
Interdependence, when he'd designed the Toronto Blue Jays' novel and much-ballyhooed SkyDome ballpark-and-hotel complex.
Because Tavis had been the one to take the lion's share of the heat when it turned out that Blue Jays' spectators in the stands, many
of them innocent children wearing caps and pounding their little fists into the gloves they'd brought with hopes of nothing more
exotic than a speared foul ball, that spectators at a distressing number of different points all along both foul-lines could see right
into the windows of guests having various and sometimes exotic sex in the hotel bedrooms over the center-field wall. The bulk of
the call for Tavis's rolling head had come, he'd tell you, when the cameraman in charge of the SkyDome's Instant-Replay-Video
Scoreboard, disgruntled or professionally suicidal or both, started training his camera on the bedroom windows and routing the
resultant multi-limbed coital images up onto the 75-meter Scoreboard screen, etc. Sometimes in slow motion and with multiple
replays, etc. Tavis will admit his reluctance to talk about it, still, after all this time. He'll confess that his usual former-career-
summary is to say just that he'd specialized in athletic venues that could safely and comfortably seat enormous numbers of live
spectators, and that the market for his services had bottomed out as more and more events were designed for cartridge-
dissemination and private home-viewing, which he'll point out is not technically untrue so much as just not entirely open and
forthcoming.
     Lateral Alice Moore is printing out WhataBurger RSVPs. The Intel 972 is cutting-edge, but she clings to a hideous old dot-
matrix printer she refuses to replace as long as Dave Harde can keep it going. It's the same with the intercom system and its
antiquated iron stand-up mike that Troeltsch says is an affront to the whole broadcasting profession. Lateral Alice has queer
eccentric pockets of intransigence and Ludditism, due possibly to her helicopter-crash and neurologic deficits. The printer's needly
sound fills the waiting room. Hal finds he can be confident of his face's symmetry and saliva only when he sits there with his right
hand over his left cheek. Each line of Alice's printed response sounds like some sort of supposedly unrippa-ble fabric getting
ripped, over and over, a dental and life-denying sound.
     For Hal, the general deal with his maternal uncle is that Tavis is terribly shy around people and tries to hide it by being very
open and expansive and wordy and bluff, and that it's excruciating to be around. Mario's way of looking at it is that Tavis is very
open and expansive and wordy, but so clearly uses these qualities as a kind of protective shield that it betrays a frightened
vulnerability almost impossible not to feel for. Either way, the unsettling thing about Charles Tavis is that he's possibly the
openest man of all time. Orin and Marlon Bain's view was always that C.T. was less like a person than like a sort of cross-section
of a person. Even the Moms Hal could remember relating anecdotes about how as a teenager, when she'd taken the child C.T. or
been around him at Québecois functions or gatherings involving other kids, the child C.T. had been too self-conscious and
awkward to join right in with any group of the kids clustered around, talking or plotting or whatever, and so Avril said she'd watch
him just kind of drift from cluster to cluster and lurk around creepily on the fringe, listening, but that he'd always say, loudly, in
some lull in the group's conversation, something like 'I'm afraid I'm far too self-conscious really to join in here, so I'm just going
to lurk creepily at the fringe and listen, if that's all right, just so you know,' and so on.
     But so the point is that Tavis is an odd and delicate specimen, both ineffectual and in certain ways fearsome as a Headmaster,
and being a relative guarantees no special predictive insight or quarter, unless certain maternal connections are exploited, the
thought of doing which literally does not occur to Hal. This odd blankness about his family might be one way to manage a life
where domestic and vocational authorities sort of bleed into each other. Hal squeezes his tennis ball like a madman, sitting there in
the needly printout-noise, right palm against his left cheek and elbow hiding his mouth, wanting very much to go first to the Pump
Room and then to brush vigorously with his portable collapsible Oral-B. A quick chew of Kodiak is out of the question for several
reasons.
      The only other time this year that Hal was officially summoned to the Headmaster's waiting room had been in late August,
right before Convocation and during Orientation period, when Y.D.A.U.'s new kids were coming in and wandering around
clueless and terrified, etc., and Tavis had wanted Hal to take temporary charge of a nine-year-old kid coming in from somewhere
called Philo IL, who was allegedly blind, the kid, and apparently had cranium-issues, from having originally been one of the
infantile natives of Ticonderoga NNY evacuated too late, and had several eyes in various stages of evolutionary development in
his head but was legally blind, but still an extremely solid player, which is all kind of a long tale in itself, given that his skull was
apparently the consistency of a Chesapeake crabshell but the head itself so huge it made Booboo look microcephalic, and the kid
apparently had on-court use of only one hand because the other had to pull around beside him a kind of rolling IV-stand appliance
with a halo-shaped metal brace welded to it at head-height, to encircle and support his head; but anyway Tex Watson and Thorp
had broken C.T. down over the kid's admission and tuition-waver, and C.T, now figured the kid would need to say the least some
extra help getting oriented (literally), and he wanted Hal to be the one to take him in hand (again literally). It turned out a couple
days later that the kid had some kind of either family or cerebro-spinal-fluid crisis at home in rural IL and wasn't matriculating
now till the Spring term. But back in August Hal had sat in the very chair Trevor Axford is now nodding off in, very late in the
day, like dusk, having had an informal exhibition match with a visiting Latvian Satellite pro go an encouraging three sets that
P.M. so that he'd missed Mrs. C.'s stuffed peppers at supper, his stomach making those where's-the-food noises from around the
transverse colon, alone in the blue room, waiting, the chair bobbing reflexively, with Lateral Alice Moore gone home to her long
apartment with rooms only 2 m. wide in Newton and an opaque plastic dust-thing wrapped tight over her Intel processor and
intercom-console and the little red danger-light on her DANGER: THIRD RAIL plaque unlit, and the only lights besides the weak
dusk outside were the hot 105W of his chairback's creepy blue-shaded magazine-lamp, plus the multiple lamps on in Charles
Tavis's office (Tavis has a phobic thing about overhead lighting) as Tavis was doing a late-day Intake interview on impossibly tiny
little Tina Echt, who just matriculated this fall at age seven. His doors were open because it was a brutal August and F. D. V.
Harde had somehow rigged Lateral Alice's air-conditioner vent in the waiting room so it really put out. Tavis's office's outer door
opened out while the inner door opened in, which gave his little inter-door vestibule kind of a jaw-like quality, when exposed.
      August Y.D.A.U. had been when Hal's chronic left ankle had been almost the worst it's ever been, after an erumpent but
grueling summer tour of getting to at least the Quarters of just about everything, mostly on hard asphalt, <endnote>217</endnote> and he could feel
his pulse in the vessels in the raw ligaments of the ankle as he sat flipping the shiny pages of a new World Tennis and watching
the little ad-cards fall out and flutter; but he also couldn't help exploiting the open-jawed view of a substantial section of Charles
Tavis at his office desk, looking as usual oddly foreshortened and small and with his hands together on the massive desktop across
from a partial-profile view of a girl who looked like she couldn't be much more than five or six, preparing to receive Intake papers
as she listened to Tavis. There'd been no Echt parents or guardians anywhere in view. Some kids just get dropped off. Sometimes
the parents' cars barely even stop, just slow down, throw gravel as they accelerate away. Tavis's desk drawers have squeaky
casters. Jim Struck's folks' Lincoln hadn't even much slowed. Struck had been helped to his feet and taken immediately to the
locker room to shower the gravel out of his hair. Hal had been in charge of his Orientation, too, when Struck transferred, booted
out of Palmer Academy after his pet tarantula (named Simone -- another long story) escaped and wouldn't even have dreamed of
biting the Headmaster's wife if she hadn't screamed and passed out and fallen right on it, Struck explained as Hal helped pick up
suitcases tumbled all over the drive.
      Like many gifted bureaucrats, Hal's mother's adoptive brother Charles Tavis is physically small in a way that seems less
endocrine than perspectival. His smallness resembles the smallness of something that's farther away from you than it wants to be,
plus is receding. <endnote>218</endnote> This weird appearance of recessive drift, together with the compulsive hand-movements that followed his
quitting smoking some years back, helped contribute to the quality of perpetual frenzy about the man, a kind of locational panic
that it's easy to see explains not only Tavis's compulsive energy -- he and Avril, pretty much the Dynamic Duo of compulsion,
between them, sleep, in their second-floor rooms in the Headmaster's House -- separate rooms -- tend to sleep, between them,
about as much as any one normal insomniac -- but maybe also contributes to the pathological openness of his manner, the way he
thinks out loud about thinking out loud, a manner Ortho Stice can imitate so eerily that he's been prohibited by the male 18's from
doing his Tavis-impression in front of the younger players, for fear that the littler kids will find it impossible to take the real Tavis
seriously at the times he needs to be taken seriously.
      As for the older kids, Stice can make them all double up now merely by shielding his eyes with his hand and assuming a
horizon-scan expression whenever Tavis heaves into view, seeming to recede even as he bears down.
      C.T. as Headmaster always has a number of introductory questions for matriculants, and Hal, now, in November, can't
remember which one of these Tavis opened with with Echt, but he remembers seeing the little girl's sucker-stick sweep the air and
a plastic Mr. Bouncety-Bounce <endnote>219</endnote> no-pierce earring swing wildly as she shook her head. Hal'd marvelled at her size. How
high could somebody this little be ranked, even regionally, in 12's?
      And then yes the sumptuous squeak of Tavis's big seagrass chair coming back forward as his elbows took his weight and he
laced his fingers together out across meters of polymer-reinforced shale desktop, custom-designed. The Headmaster's smile as he
leaned back, though hidden from Hal because of the shadow of the office's enormous StairBlaster, <endnote>220</endnote> was nevertheless
audible because of the thing with Charles Tavis's teeth, about which maybe the less said the better. Looking discreetly in, Hal had
felt an involuntary rush of affection for C.T. His maternal uncle's hair was straight and very precisely combed over, and his little
mustache was never quite symmetrical. One eye was also set at a slightly different angle than the other, so that besides holding his
hand up to scan Stice would also cock his head slightly to the side whenever C.T. came near. Hal's involuntary grin is lopsided
and only half-felt, now, remembering. The Axhandle's sitting there slumped, with his fist to his chin, a posture that he thinks
makes him look meditative but that really makes him look in utero, and Kittenplan is chewing at her knuckles' tattoos, which is
what she does instead of washing them off.
      Then Ortho Stice had entered the hot waiting room, shirt wet and crew cut matted from the courts and toting his Wilsons, and
made right for the AC-vent's downdraft outside Tavis's little vestibule. Slice's clothes were comped by Fila and when he played
any sort of match he wore all black, and at E.T.A. and on the tour was known as The Darkness. He had a crew cut and the
beginnings of jowls. He and Hal exchanged the very slight sorts of nods people use when they like each other past all need for
politeness. They had similar games, although most of Stice's touch was at the net. Stice raised one hand to his eyes and cocked his
head slightly in the direction of the office's lamplight.
      'The little guy going to be a long time in there?'
      'You have to ask?'
      Tavis was saying 'What actually we do for you here is to break you down in very carefully selected ways, take you apart as a
little girl and put you back together again as a tennis player who can take the court against any little girl in North America without
fear of limitation. With a perspective unmarred by the eyelashes of whatever pockets you brought here. A little girl now who can
regard the court as a mirror whose reflection holds no illusions or fear for you.'
      'Now the thing with the skull,' Stice said. Hal had watched gooseflesh rise on Stice's arms and legs as he stood under the cold
air and faced up and breathed, hugging his gear to his chest.
      'One possible way of couching it is to choose to say that we will take apart your skull very gently and reconstruct a skull for
you that will have a highly developed bump of clarity and a slight concave dent where the fear-instinct used to be. I'm doing my
best to cast all this in terms the you you are right now can be comfortable with, Tina. Though I need to tell you I feel
uncomfortable adjusting a presentation toward or down toward anyone in any way, since I'm terribly vain, both as a man and an
educator, about my reputation for candor,' Tavis said. The audible smile. 'It is one of my limitations.'
      Stice withdrew without even having to say goodbye to Hal. They were at complete ease with one another. It had been a bit
different the year before, when Hal was still in Boys' 16's. Hal heard Stice say something to somebody out in the lobby. Part of
C.T.'s impression of distance just past the eye's focal length was the fact that the two sides of his face didn't quite go together. It
wasn't as drastic as a stroke-victim's face or a deformity; the subtlety of it was part of it, the essential vagueness about himself that
Tavis fought by sort of peeling his skull back and exposing his brain to you without any sort of warning or invitation; it was part
of the man's preoccupied frenzy.
      Between Ortho Stice's exit and the Moms's entry Hal had been flexing the ankle and watching the swelling shift slightly under
the multiple socks. He stood and put his weight on the ankle experimentally a couple times and then sat back down and flexed it,
watching the swelling very intently. The way he knew suddenly that he was going to go down and get high in secret in the Pump
Room before showering was that it hadn't occurred to him to ask The Darkness about making some sort of arrangements to eat
together, since Stice had missed supper too. His viscera were putting out the sound of one of those teakettles that doesn't have a
whistle and so just rumbles as it boils. A competitive athlete cannot skip meals without terrific metabolic distress.
      After a little while Avril Incandenza, E.T.A.'s Dean of Academic Affairs, had lowered her head under the waiting room's
jamb and come in, looking fresh and totally untouched by the heat. She had one of the Orientation packets in its customary red-
and-gray binder.
      The Moms always had this way of establishing herself in the exact center of any room she was in, so that from any angle she
was somehow in the line of all sight. It was part of her, and so to that extent dear to Hal, but it was noticeable and kind of
unsettling. His brother Orin, during a late-night round of Family Trivia, had once described Avril as The Black Hole of Human
Attention. Hal had been pacing, rising up on the toes of the left foot, trying to gauge the exact level of physical discomfort he was
feeling. That's when she'd come in. Hal and the Moms always greeted each other kind of extravagantly. When Avril entered a
room, any sort of pacing reduced to orbiting, and Hal's pacing became vaguely circular around the waiting room's perimeter as
Avril rested her tailbone on the receptionist's desk and crossed her ankles and produced her cigarette case. Her manner always
became very casual and almost sort of male when she and Hal were alone in a room.
      She watched him walk. 'The ankle?'
      He hated himself for exaggerating the limp even slightly. 'Tender. Sore at the very worst. More like tender.'
      'No, now, now no need to cry,'' C.T. was exclaiming as he knelt at the side of the chair from which little legs dangled and
were spasming around. 'I didn't mean literally break, as in break open your bead, Tina. Please let me acknowledge that this is
totally my fault my dear for presenting what we'll be up to here in just exactly the wrong sort of light.'
      Avril had casually produced a 100-mm. rodney from the flat brass case and tamped it on an unlined knuckle. Hal produced no
lighter. Neither of them had looked toward Tavis's office's maw. Avril's smock-type dress was blue cotton, with a kind of
scalloped white doily around the shoulders and white stockings and painfully white Reebok cross-trainers.
      'I am horrified that I've made you cry like this.' Tavis's voice had assumed that stressed character of issuing from the end of a
long corridor. 'Just please know that a totally unthreatening lap is available if you want a lap, is all I can think of to say.'
      Avril always smoked with her smoking-arm up and elbow resting in the crook of the other arm. She would frequently hold a
rodney just this same way without lighting it or even putting it in her mouth. She permitted herself to smoke only in her E.T.A.
office and HmH study and one or two other venues outfitted with air-filtration equipment. Her posture, that night, with her coccyx
against something and looking down the length of her legs, was awfully close to the way Himself used to stand around. She
indicated C.T.'s door with her head.
      'I gather he's been in there a while.'
      Hal despised even the very slight suggestion of whine that came in: 'I've been waiting here coming up on an hour.' And that
he liked it a little that she looked pained for him as her tiny eyebrows (unplucked, just naturally tiny and arched) went up.
      'You've had nothing to eat, then, yet?'
      'I was summoned.'`
      Tavis's voice in there: Til invite you right here and now to sit in my lap and let me make such soothing sounds as There There
There.'
      'Want my Mommy and Daddy.'
      Avril said, 'That's the old turn making those sounds then, and not the air conditioner?' with that smile that was also a kind of
wince.
      'Couldn't even start to describe the sounds coming from down there, like that whistleless kettle Himself used to leave on when
--'
     An apple appeared from a deep pocket in her smock. 'Happen to have a spare Granny Smith here, to tack body to soul while
we wait.'
     He smiled tiredly at the big green apple. 'Moms, that's your apple. That's all you're going to eat between 12 and 23, I happen
to know.'
     Avril made a distended gesture. 'Stuffed. Huge lunch with a set of parents not three hours ago. I've been staggering around
since.' Looking at the apple like she had no idea where it'd even come from. Til probably pitch this out.'
     'You will not.'
     'Please,' rising from the desk's edge without seeming to use muscles, apple held out like something distasteful, cigarette down
at her side where it would be putting a hole in the smock if lit. 'You'd be doing us both a favor.'
     'This drives me bats. You know this drives me bats.'
     Orin and Hal's term for this routine is Politeness Roulette. This Moms-thing that makes you hate yourself for telling her the
truth about any kind of problem because of what the consequences will be for her. It's like to report any sort of need or problem is
to mug her. Orin and Hal had this bit, during Family Trivia sometimes: 'Please, I'm not using this oxygen anyway.' 'What, this old
limb? Take it. In the way all the time. Take it.' 'But it's a gorgeous bowel movement, Mario -- the living room rug needed
something, I didn't know what til right this very moment.' The special fantodish chill of feeling both complicit and obliged. Hal
despised the way he always reacted, taking the apple, pretending to pretend his reluctance to eat her supper was a pretense. Orin
believed she did it all on purpose, which was way too easy. He said she went around with her feelings out in front of her with an
arm around the feelings' windpipe and a Clock 9 mm. to the feelings' temple like a terrorist with a hostage, daring you to shoot.
     The Moms held the red binder out to Hal without moving. 'Have you seen Alice's new packets?' The apple was good-sour but
perfumy from the pocket of the Moms's smock, and it stimulated a torrent of saliva. The binder had different little informal and
action photos from the waiting-room walls, and offprints of clippings, and three rings for the packet of guidelines and Honor-Code
pledges, all done up by Moore in a Gothic ital.
     Hal looked up from the binder, indicating C.T.'s office with his head. 'You're taking the girl around yourself?'
     'We're encouragingly short-staffed. Thierry and Donni won their qualifying round at Hartford, so they're staying over.' She
leaned way forward and looked in at C.T. so he could see she was out here. She smiled.
     Hal followed her look. 'The girl's name's Tina something and she'll come up to about your knee.'
     'Echt,' Avril said, looking at something on a printout.
     Hal looked at her while he chewed. 'You don't like her already?'
     'Tina Echt. Pawtucket. Father apparently some sort of unleavened baker, mother a public relations person for the Red Sox
A.A.A. baseball there.'
     Hal had to wipe his chin as he smiled. 'Triple-A. Not A.A.A.'
     Avril was leaning forward at the waist with the binder to her breast the way females hold flat things, still trying to catch the
Headmaster's eye.
     Hal said 'Troeltsch finally has some competition in the repulsive-last-name department.'
     'Lord she is a small one isn't she.'
     'I can't see her being more than maybe five.'
     'Oh golly let's see: age seven, high I.Q., somewhat impoverished-looking M.M.P.I., played out of Providence Racquet and
Bath in East Providence. Ranked thirty-first in Eastern 12's as of June.'
     'She can't be much taller than her damn stick out there, when she plays. Schtitt's going to keep her here what, twelve years?'
     'The girl's father has been calling about admission for her for over two years, Charles said.'
     'He was doing that thing about taking skulls apart and she yelled bloody murder.'
     Avril's laugh's onset was high-pitched and alarming and distinctive, so now at least C.T. would for sure know the Moms was
out here waiting and would wind things up and maybe get to Hal so Hal could go get high in secret. 'Well good for her,' Avril said.
     The orbit took him around Lateral Alice Moore's desk in a kind of thick ellipse. Every time his left foot came down he either
dipped down or raised up briefly to tip-toe, flexing the ankle. 'Ten years here and she'll lose her mind. If she starts at seven she'll
either be ready for the Show at fourteen or by fourteen she'll start getting that burned-out look that makes you want to wave your
hand in front of her face.'
     There was the sound of Tavis's squeaky right Nunn Bush pacing faster, which meant real conclusion. 'I'm going to predict it's
probably hard to see yourself as a great athlete at this stage, Tina, not being able to see over the net yet, but possibly even harder
to see yourself as providing entertainment, engaging people's attention. As a high-velocity object people can project themselves
onto, forgetting their own limitations in the face of the nearly limitless potential someone as young as yourself represents.'
     The apple generated tremendous amounts of saliva. 'He'll put her in the Show before menses, there'll be another enormous
fuss and high-rental cartridges of a girl no larger than her racquet beating up on hairy Slavic lesbians, and then by fourteen she'll
be like old coal in the bottom of a backyard grill.' Some old military joke about apples kept running through. Eat the Apple, Fuck
the Core. Hal couldn't remember what it was supposed to signify.
     The Moms was snapping her fingers silently and working her forehead. 'There's some term for coals reduced to residue after
all day in a grill. I'm trying to think.'
     Hal hates this. 'Clinkers,' he said instantly. 'From klinker low German and klinckaerd old Dutch, to sound, ring, nominated to
substantive around 1769: a hard mass formed by the fusion of the earthy impurities of like coal, iron ore, limestone.' He hated it
that she could even dream he'd be taken in by the aphasiac furrowing and finger-snapping, and then that he's always so pleased to
play along. Is it showing off if you hate it?
     'Clinker.'
     'A grill wouldn't have clinkers. Charcoal's refined to burn right down to dust. Clinkers are sort of metallic, I think. See for
example the ring-dash-sound etymology.'
     'I like to suspect this is why so many of our older players like to project me into this carnival-barker persona with tiny balance
sheets revolving in my eyes, that I'm up-front with every incoming addition to our family that this is where the resources come
from for professional tennis, and for the North American junior development system for gifted children who want to scale the
heights to professionalism or to a competitive college career, and so ultimately for an Academy like this one's considerable
operating expenses, and for scholarships like the partial one we're so happy to be able to offer your parents for you.'
     'So then perhaps you'd care to join us for dinner. We'll also have Ms. Echt if she can stay up that long.'
     The core made a very-muffled-cymbal sound in the bottom of Lateral Alice's wastebasket. 'I can't get out of dawns. Wayne
and I are supposed to play Slobodan <endnote>221</endnote> and Hartigan at some corporate-spectacle thing at Au-burndale right after lunch.'
     'Have you had Barry speak to Gerhardt about the ankle not getting better?'
     'The clay'll be good to it. Schtitt knows all about the ankle.'
     'Well best of British luck to you both.' Avril's purse looked more like soft luggage than like a purse. 'May I lend you the key
to the kitchen, then.'
     It's always the Moms's left shoulder Hal looks over, whenever he orbits, and his plans emerged between Avril's invitations to
accept some sort of politeness-act. 'The Darkness and I were going to blast down the hill and grab something if and when I ever
get out of here.'
     'Oh.'
     Then he wondered with dread what Stice might have said to her on her way in, re supper. 'Maybe Pemulis too, I think Pemulis
said.'
     'Well do not, under any circumstances, enjoy yourself.'
     Echt and Tavis were both standing, now, in there. Their handshake looked, for the first split-second he looked, like C.T. was
jacking off and the little girl was going Sieg Heil. Hal thought he was maybe starting to lose his mind. Even the meat of the
Granny Smith smelled like perfume.
     Three months later, earlier today, before being again summoned, at the dentist's, the dentist's office had had a weird sharp
clean sweet smell about it, the olfactory equivalent of fluorescent light. Hal had felt the cold stab in the gum and then the slow
radial freeze, his face ballooning to become one of the frozen cumuli against the aftershave-blue of the dental wallpaper's sky.
Zegarelli D.D.S. had dry dark green eyes that bulged above his mint-blue mask, as in like olives where eyes should be, as he
leaned in to proceed, his dental overhead light's corona giving him one of those malperspectived medieval halos that seem to stand
on end. Even masked, Zegarelli's breath is infamous -- E.T.A.s forced for the first time by their E.T.A. Group Plan to recline
below Zegarelli are counselled on how to respire, to inhale when Zegarelli inhales and exhale right back out with him, to avoid
doubling the amount of suffering Hal's already gone through, just today.
     Charles Tavis is not a buffoon. The thing that's keeping things so tensely quiet out here amid all this waiting-room blue is that
there are historically at least two Charles Tavises, the three older boys know. The openly cross-sectional and free-associating and
arms-waving-on-the-perspectival-horizon dithering hand-wringing Total-Worry persona is really Tavis's version of social
composure, his way of trying to get along with you. But just ask Michael Pemulis, whose sneakers have been on Tavis's carpet so
often they've left an unvacuumable impression in the checked Antron: when Tavis loses his composure, when the integrity or
smooth function of the Academy or his unquestioned place at the E.T.A. tiller is God forbid threatened, Hal's openly adjustable
uncle becomes a different man, one not to be fucked with. It's not necessarily pejorative to compare a cornered bureaucrat to a cor-
nered rat. The danger-sign to watch out for is if Tavis suddenly gets very quiet and very still. Because then he seems,
perspectivally, to grow. He seems, sitting there, to rush in at you, dopplering in at a whisper. Almost looming over you from
across the huge desk. If shit meets administrative fan, kids coming out of his mandible-doored office come out pale and rubbing
their eyes, not from tears but from this depth-perspective skewing that C.T. suddenly effects, when there's shit.
     Another alert is when Lateral Alice Moore gets formally buzzed to bring you and the others in, instead of the office doors
ever opening from inside, and when she gets up and edges over to show you in like you're some sort of hat-holding salesman,
without once meeting your eye, as if there's shame. One big family.
     The diddle-check seems like it's degenerated into the girls all getting very excited and exchanging data on what kinds of
animals members of their own biologic families either imitate or physically resemble, and Avril's out of sight and silent and
apparently letting them go with it for a while and vent stress. Hal keeps checking for jaw-drool with the back of his hand. Pemulis,
in a Cyrillic-lettered T-shirt, takes off the hat and looks around himself and makes reflexive tie-straightening movements, taking
one last look at his lines on the printout while Axford stands there needing three tries to work the outside door's knob. Ann
Kittenplan, on the other hand, wears an expression of almost regal calm, and precedes them through the inner door like someone
stepping down off a dais.
     And it also seems somehow sinister that she's apparently been in here all this time, this Clenette person, one of the nine-
month temps from down the hill, pretty-eyed and so black she's got a bluish cast, with hair ironed straight and then pinned up and
the standard E.T.A.-custodial teal-blue zip-upable jumpsuit, emptying Tavis's personal brass wastebaskets into her big cart with its
gray canvas sides. The way she stares at a point just to the side of Hal's own stare as she and her cart wait at C.T.'s inner door for
Hal and the others to be ushered sideways through by Lateral Alice Moore. The cart, like poor Otis Lord's own game-master's cart,
has a crazy wheel, and clatters a bit even buried in shag, trying to maneuver around Moore as she reverses back along the
vestibule's wall. Neither Schtitt nor deLint is in here, but from the hiss of Pemulis's inhale Hal can tell that Dr. Dolores Rusk is in
the room even before he takes his eyes from a C.T. who's sitting pulsing with swollen proximity in his seagrass swivel-chair and
almost done coolly bending a giant paper clip into a sort of cardioid or else sloppy circle: Tavis's window-lit shadow now reaches
all the way past the StairBlaster to the red-and-gray-fabric ottoman along the east wall, in which sits sure enough Rusk, her hose
laddered and face betraying nothing; and then next to her is poor old Otis P. Lord, the Hitachi monitor still over his head like the
sallet of some grotesque high-tech knight, slumped and with his sneakers pointing at each other in the blue and black shag, hands
in his lap, two crude eye-holes cut into the black plastic casing of the monitor's base, Lord not meeting Pemulis's eye, and wicked
hanging shards of glass from the screen he fell through pointing -- some nearly touching, even -- his slim neck and throat, so he
has to hold his head very still, despite the heavings of his shallow chest, with the day-shift E.T.A. nurse standing behind him and
inclined over the back of the sofa to hold the monitor very carefully in place, the incline producing cleavage which Hal would
gladly choose to be the sort of person not to note. Lord's eyes move to Hal and blink dolefully through the holes, and he can be
heard sniffing moistly in there, complexly muffled; and Pemulis is just finishing moving his feet precisely into their familiar
impressions in the office carpet when C.T., seeming direly to rise from his chair without getting up, quietly asks the room's last
occupant -- the scrubbed young button-nosed urologist in an O.N.A.N.T.A. blazer, severely underdue at E.T.A., seated back in
the shadow of the open inner door in the room's southeast corner, so he's hidden right behind them from the start and there's the
opportunity for this stagy incriminating-type whirl-and-kertwang-face from Axford and Hal as they hear Charles Tavis addressing
the urine expert behind them, asking him very quietly please to close both doors.

