     Sometime later, at night, backlit by the light of the hall, is the figure of resident Geoffrey Day, sitting where Thrust had sat
but with the chair turned around the right way and with his legs primly crossed, eating a cream-cheese brownie he reports they're
passing out free to people down at the nurses' station. Day says Johnette F. is certainly no Don Gately in the culinary arena. She
seems to enjoy some sort of collusive kickback-type relationship with the manufacturers of Spam, Day says, is his theory. It might
be a whole different night. The nighttime ceiling no longer bulges convexly with Gately's own shallow breaths, and the improved
sounds he can now make have evolved from feline to more like bovine. But his right side hurts so bad he can barely hear. It's gone
from a fiery pain to cold dead deep tight pain with a queer flavor of emotional loss to it. From deep inside he can hear the pain
laughing at the 90 mg. of Toradol-IM they've got in the I.V. drip. As with Ewell, when Gately comes up out of sleep there's no
way to tell how long Day's been there, or quite why. Day is plowing through a long story it seems about his relationship growing
up with his younger brother. Gately has a hard time imagining Day being blood-related to anybody. Day says his brother was
developmentally challenged in some way. He had enormous red wet loose lips and wore eyeglasses so thick his eyes had looked
like an ant's eyes, growing up. Part of his challenge was that Day's brother had had a crippling phobic fear of leaves, apparently.
As in ordinary leaves, from trees. Day's been sucker-punched by an emergent sober memory of how he used to emotionally abuse
his little brother simply by threatening to touch him with a leaf. Day has this way of holding his cheek and jaw when he talks like
cutout photos of the late J. Benny. It's not at all evident why Day's choosing to share this stuff with a mute and feverishly
semiconscious Gately. It seems like Don G.'s gotten way more popular as somebody to talk to since he's become effectively
paralyzed and mute. The ceiling's behaving itself, but in the room's gray Gately could still make out a tallly insubstantial ghostish
figure appearing and disappearing in the mist of his vision's periphery. There was some creepy relationship between the figure's
postures and the passing nurses' noiseless glide. This figure pretty definitely seemed to prefer night to day, though by this point
Gately could well have been asleep again, as Day began to describe different species of hand-held leaves.
     A recurring bad dream Gately's had ever since he gave up and Came In and got straight consists simply of a tiny acne-scarred
Oriental woman looking down at him. Nothing else happens; she's just looking down at Gately. Her acne scars aren't even all that
bad. The thing is that she's tiny. She's one of those tiny little anonymous Oriental women you see all over metro Boston, always
seeming to be carrying multiple shopping bags. But in the recurring dream she's looking down at him, from his perspective he's
looking up and she's looking down, which means Gately in the dream is either (a) lying down on his back looking vulnerably up at
her or (b) is himself even more incredibly tiny than the woman. Involved in the dream also in a menacing way somehow is a dog
standing rigidly in the distance past the Oriental woman, motionless and rigid, in profile, standing there still and straight as a toy.
The Oriental woman has no particular expression and never says anything, though her face's scars have a certain elusive pattern to
them that seems like it wants to mean something. When Gately opens his eyes again Geoffrey Day's gone, and his hospital bed
with its railings and I.V. bottles on stands has been moved way over so that it's right up next to the bed of whoever the person in
the room's other bed is, so it's like Gately and this unknown patient are a sexless old couple sleeping together but in separate beds,
and Gately's mouth goes oval and his eyes bug out with horror, and his effort at yelling hurts enough to wake him up, and his
eyelids shoot up and rattle like old windowshades, and his hospital bed's back where it's always been, and a nurse is giving the
anonymous guy in the other bed some sort of late-night-type shot you could tell was narcotic, and the patient, who has a very deep
voice, is crying. Then somewhere later in the couple of hours before midnight's parking-switch symphony on Washington St.
outside is an unpleasantly detailed dream where the ghostish figure that's been flickering in and out of sight around the room
finally stays in one spot long enough for Gately to really check him out. In the dream it's the figure of a very tall sunken-chested
man in black-frame glasses and a sweatshirt with old stained chinos, leaning back sort of casually or else morosely slumped,
resting its tailbone against the window sill's ventilator's whispering grille, with its long arms hanging at its sides and its ankles
casually crossed so that Gately can even see the detail that the ghostly chinos aren't long enough for its height, they're the kind
kids used to call 'Highwa-ters' in Gately's childhood -- a couple of Bimmy Gately's savager pals would corner some pencil-
necked kid in those-type too-short trousers on the playground and go like 'Yo little brother where's the fucking flood?' and then lay
the kid out with a head-slap or chest-shove so the inevitable violin went skittering ass-over-teakettle across the blacktop, in its
case. The creepy ghostish figure's arm sometimes, like, vanishes and then reappears at the bridge of its nose, pushing the glasses
up in a weary unconscious morose gesture, just like those kids in the High water pants on the playground always did in a weak
morose way that always somehow made Gately himself want to shove them savagely in the chest. Gately in the dream
experienced a painful adrenal flash of remorse and entertained the possibility that the figure represented one of the North Shore
violin-playing kids he'd never kept his savage pals from abusing, now come in an adult state when Gately was vulnerable and
mute, to exact some kind of payback. The ghostly figure shrugged its thin shoulders and said But no, it was nothing of the sort, it
was just a plain old wraith, one without any sort of grudge or agenda, just a generic garden-variety wraith. Gately sarcastically in
the dream thought that Oh well then if it was just a garden-variety wraith, is all, geez what a fucking relief. The wraith-figure
smiled apologetically and shrugged, shifting its tailbone on the whispering grille a bit. There was an odd quality to its movements
in the dream: they were of regulation speed, the movements, but they seemed oddly segmented and deliberate, as if more effort
than necessary were going into them somehow. Then Gately considered that who knew what was necessary or normal for a self-
proclaimed generic wraith in a pain-and-fever dream. Then he considered that this was the only dream he could recall where even
in the dream he knew that it was a dream, much less lay there considering the fact that he was considering the up-front dream
quality of the dream he was dreaming. It quickly got so multilevelled and confusing that his eyes rolled back in his head. The
wraith made a weary morose gesture as if not wanting to bother to get into any sort of confusing dream-v.-real controversies. The
wraith said Gately might as well stop trying to figure it out and just capitalize on its presence, the wraith's presence in the room or
dream, whatever, because Gately, if he'd bothered to notice and appreciate it, at least didn't have to speak out loud to be able to
interface with the wraith-figure; and also the wraith-figure said it was by the way requiring incredible patience and fortitude for
him (the wraith) to stay in one position long enough for Gately to really see him and interface with him, and the wraith was
making no promises about how many more months he (the wraith) could keep it up, since fortitude had never seemed to have been
his long suit. The city's aggregate nighttime lights lightened the sky through the room's window to the same dark rose shade you
see when you close your eyes, adding to the dream-of-dream-type ambiguity. Gately in the dream tried the test of pretending to
lose consciousness so the wraith would go away, and then somewhere during the pretense lost consciousness and really did sleep,
for a bit, in the dream, because the tiny pocked Oriental woman was back and looking wordlessly down at him, plus the creepy
rigid dog. And then the sedated patient in the next bed woke Gately back up, in the original dream, with some kind of narcotized
gurgle or snore, and the so-called wraith-figure was still there and visible, only now it was standing on top of the railing at the side
of Gately's bed, looking down at him now from a towering railing-plus-original-tallness height, having to exaggerate his
shoulders' natural slump in order to clear the ceiling. Gately got a clear view of an impressive thatch of nostril-hair, looking up
into the wraith's nostrils, and also a clear lateral look at the wraith's skinny ankles' like ankle-bones bulging in brown socks below
the cuffs of the Highwater chinos. As much as his shoulder, calf, toe, and whole right side were hurting, it occurred to Gately that
you don't normally think of wraiths or ghost -ish phantasms as being tall or short, or having bad posture, or wearing certain-
colored socks. Much less having anything as specific as extrusive nostril-hair. There was a degree of, what, specificness about this
figure in this dream that Gately found troubling. Much less having the unpleasant old-Oriental-woman dream inside this dream
right here. He began to wish again that he could call out for assistance or to wake himself up. But now not even moos or mews
would come, all he could seem to do was pant real hard, as if the air was like totally missing his vocal box, or like his vocal box
was totally demapped from nerve-damage in his shoulder and now just sort of hung there all withered and dry like an old hornet
nest while air rushed out Gately's throat all around it. His throat still didn't feel right. It was exactly the suffocated speechlessness
in dreams, nightmares, Gately realized. This was both terrifying and reassuring, somehow. Evidence for the dream-element and so
on and so forth. The wraith was looking down at him and nodding sympathetically. The wraith could empathize totally, it said.
The wraith said Even a garden-variety wraith could move at the speed of quanta and be anywhere anytime and hear in symphonic
toto the thoughts of animate men, but it couldn't ordinarily affect anybody or anything solid, and it could never speak right to
anybody, a wraith had no out-loud voice of its own, and had to use somebody's like internal brain-voice if it wanted to try to
communicate something, which was why thoughts and insights that were coming from some wraith always just sound like your
own thoughts, from inside your own head, if a wraith's trying to interface with you. The wraith says By way of illustration
consider phenomena like intuition or inspiration or hunches, or when someone for instance says 'a little voice inside' was telling
them such-and-such on an intuitive basis. Gately can now take no more than a third of a normal breath without wanting to throw
up from the pain. The wraith was pushing his glasses up and saying Besides, it took incredible discipline and fortitude and patient
effort to stay stock-still in one place for long enough for an animate man actually to see and be in any way affected by a wraith,
and very few wraiths had anything important enough to interface about to be willing to stand still for this kind of time, preferring
ordinarily to whiz around at the invisible speed of quanta. The wraith says It doesn't really matter whether Gately knows what the
term quanta means. He says Wraiths by and large exist (putting his arms out slowly and making little quotation-mark finger-
wiggles as he said exist) in a totally different Heisenbergian dimension of rate-change and time-passage. As an example, he goes
on, normal animate men's actions and motions look, to a wraith, to be occurring at about the rate a clock's hour-hand moves, and
are just about as interesting to look at. Gately was thinking for fuck's sake what was this, now even in unpleasant fever-dreams
now somebody else is going to tell him their troubles now that Gately can't get away or dialogue back with anything about his
own experience. He normally couldn't ever get Ewell or Day to sit down for any kind of real or honest mutual sharing, and now
that he's totally mute and inert and passive all of a sudden everybody seems to view him as a sympathetic ear, or not even a
sympathetic real ear, more like a wooden carving or statue of an ear. An empty confessional booth. Don G. as huge empty
confessional booth. The wraith disappears and instantly reappears in a far corner of the room, waving Hi at him. It was slightly
reminiscent of 'Bewitched' reruns from Gately's toddlerhood. The wraith disappears again and again just as instantly reappears,
now holding one of Gately's Ennet House basement flea-baggy Staff bedroom's cut-out-and-Scotch-taped celebrity photos, this
one an old one of U.S. Head of State Johnny Gentle, Famous Crooner, on stage, wearing velour, twirling a mike, from back in the
days before he went to a copper-colored toupee, when he used a strigil instead of a UV flash-booth and was just a Vegas crooner.
Again the wraith disappears and instantly reappears holding a can of Coke, with good old Coke's distinctive interwoven red and
white French curls on it but alien unfamiliar Oriental-type writing on it instead of the good old words Coca-Cola and Coke. The
unfamiliar script on the Coke can is maybe the whole dream's worst moment. The wraith walks jerkily and overdeliberately across
the floor and then up a wall, occasionally disappearing and then reappearing, sort of fluttering mistily, and ends up standing
upside-down on the hospital room's drop ceiling, directly over Gately, and holds one knee to its sunken chest and starts doing
what Gately would know were pirouettes if he'd ever once been exposed to ballet, pirouetting faster and faster and then so fast the
wraith's nothing but a long stalk of sweatshirt-and-Coke-can-colored light that seems to extrude from the ceiling; and then, in a
moment that rivals the Coke-can moment for unpleasantness, into Gately's personal mind, in Gately's own brain-voice but with
roaring and unwilled force, comes the term PIROUETTE, in caps, which term Gately knows for a fact he doesn't have any idea
what it means and no reason to be thinking it with roaring force, so the sensation is not only creepy but somehow violating, a sort
of lexical rape. Gately begins to consider this hopefully nonrecurring dream even more unpleasant than the tiny-pocked-Oriental-
woman dream, overall. Other terms and words Gately knows he doesn't know from a divot in the sod now come crashing through
his head with the same ghastly intrusive force, e.g. ACCIAC-CATURA and ALEMBIC, LATRODECTUS MACTANS and
NEUTRAL DENSITY POINT, CHIAROSCURO and PROPRIOCEPTION and TESTUDO and ANNULATE and BRICOLAGE
and CATALEPT and GERRYMANDER and SCOPOPHILIA and LAERTES -- and all of a sudden it occurs to Gately the
aforethought EXTRUDING, STRIGIL and LEXICAL themselves -- and LORDOSIS and IMPOST and SINISTRAL and
MENISCUS and CHRONAXY and POOR YORICK and LUCULUS and CERISE MONTCLAIR and then D£ SICA NEO-
REAL CRANE DOLLY and CIRCUMAMBIENTFOUNDDRAMALEVIRATEMAR-RIAGE and then more lexical terms and
words speeding up to chipmunkish and then HELIATED and then all the way up to a sound like a mosquito on speed, and Gately
tries to clutch both his temples with one hand and scream, but nothing comes out. When the wraith reappears, it's seated way up
behind him where Gately has to let his eyes roll way back in his head to see him, and it turns out Gately's heart is being medically
monitored and the wraith is seated up on the heart monitor in a strange cross-legged posture with his pantcuffs pulled up so high
Gately could see the actual skinny hairless above-the-sock skin of the wraith's ankles, glowing a bit in the spilled light of the
Trauma Wing hall. The Oriental can of Coke now rests on Gately's broad flat forehead. It's cold and smells a little funny, like low
tide, the can. Now footsteps and the sound of bubblegum in the hall. An orderly shines a flashlight in and plays it over Gately and
the narcotized roommate and environs, and makes marks on a clipboard while blowing a small orange bubble. It's not like the light
passes through the wraith or anything dramatic -- the wraith simply disappears the instant the light hits the heart monitor and
reappears the instant it moves away. Gately's unpleasant dreams definitely don't normally include specific gum-color and intense
physical discomfort and invasions of lexical terms he doesn't know from shinola. Gately begins to conclude it's not impossible that
the garden-variety wraith on the heart monitor, though not conventionally real, could be a sort of epiphanyish visitation from
Gately's personally confused understanding of God, a Higher Power or something, maybe sort of like the legendary Pulsing Blue
Light that AA founder Bill W. historically saw during his last detox, that turned out to be God telling him how to stay sober via
starting AA and Carrying The Message. The wraith smiles sadly and says something like Don't we both wish, young sir. Gately's
forehead wrinkling as his eyes keep rolling up makes the foreign can wobble coldly: of course there's also the possibility that the
tall slumped extremely fast wraith might represent the Sergeant at Arms, the Disease, exploiting the loose security of Gately's
fever-addled mind, getting ready to fuck with his motives and persuade him to accept Demerol just once, just one last time, for the
totally legitimate medical pain. Gately lets himself wonder what it would be like, able to quantum off anyplace instantly and stand
on ceilings and probably burgle like no burglar'd ever dreamed of, but not able to really affect anything or interface with anybody,
having nobody know you're there, having people's normal rushed daily lives look like the movements of planets and suns, having
to sit patiently very still in one place for a long time even to have some poor addled son of a bitch even be willing to entertain
your maybe being there. It'd be real free-seeming, but incredibly lonely, he imagines. Gately knows a thing or two about
loneliness, he feels. Does wraith mean like a ghost, as in dead? Is this a message from a Higher Power about sobriety and death?
What would it be like to try and talk and have the person think it was just their own mind talking? Gately could maybe Identify, to
an extent, he decides. This is the only time he's ever been struck dumb except for a brief but nasty bout of pleuritic laryngitis he'd
had when he was twenty-four and sleeping on the cold beach up in Gloucester, and he doesn't like it a bit, the being struck dumb.
It's like some combination of invisibility and being buried alive, in terms of the feeling. It's like being strangled somewhere deeper
inside you than your neck. Gately imagines himself with a piratical hook, unable to speak on Commitments because he can only
gurgle and pant, doomed to an AA life of ashtrays and urns. the wraith reaches down and removes the can of un-American tonic
from Gately's forehead and assures Gately he can more than Identify with an animate man's feelings of communicative impotence
and mute strangulation. Gately's thoughts become agitated as he tries to yell mentally that he never said a fucking thing about
impotence. He's got a way clearer and more direct view of the wraith's extreme nostril-hair situation than he'd prefer to. The
wraith hefts the can absently and says age twenty-eight seems old enough for Gately to remember U.S. broadcast television's old
network situation comedies of the B.S. '80s and '90s, probably. Gately has to smile at the wraith's cluelessness: Gately's after all a
fucking drug addict, and a drug addict's second most meaningful relationship is always with his domestic entertainment unit,
TV/VCR or HDTP. A drug addict's maybe the only human species whose own personal vision has a Vertical Hold, for Christ's
sake, he thinks. And Gately, even in recovery, can still summon great verbatim chunks not only of drug-addicted adolescence's
'Seinfeld' and 'Ren and Stimpy' and 'Oo Is 'E When 'E's at 'Ome' and 'Exposed Northerners' but also the syndicated 'Bewitched' and
'Hazel' and ubiquitous 'M*A*S*H' he grew to monstrous childhood size in front of, and especially the hometown ensemble-casted
'Cheers!,' both the late-network version with the stacked brunette and the syndicated older ones with the titless blond, which
Gately even after the switch over to InterLace and HDTP dissemination felt like he had a special personal relationship with
'Cheers!,' not only because everybody on the show always had a cold foamer in hand, just like in real life, but because Gately's big
childhood claim to recognition had been his eerie resemblance to the huge neckless simian-browed accountant Nom who more or
less seemed to live at the bar, and was unkind but not cruel, and drank foamer after foamer without once hitting anybody's Mom
or pitching over sideways and passing out in vomit somebody else had to clean up, and who'd looked -- right down to the massive
square head and Neanderthal brow and paddle-sized thumbs -- eerily like the child D. W. ('Bim') Gately, hulking and neckless
and shy, riding his broom handle, Sir Osis of Thuliver. And the wraith on the heart monitor looks pensively down at Gately from
upside-down and asks does Gately remember the myriad thespian extras on for example his beloved 'Cheers!,' not the center-stage
Sam and Carla and Nom, but the nameless patrons always at tables, filling out the bar's crowd, concessions to realism, always
relegated to back- and foreground; and always having utterly silent conversations: their faces would animate and mouths move
realistically, but without sound; only the name-stars at the bar itself could audibilize. The wraith says these fractional actors,
human scenery, could be seen (but not heard) in most pieces of filmed entertainment. And Gately remembers them, the extras in
all public scenes, especially like bar and restaurant scenes, or rather remembers how he doesn't quite remember them, how it never
struck his addled mind as in fact surreal that their mouths moved but nothing emerged, and what a miserable fucking bottom-rung
job that must be for an actor, to be sort of human furniture, figurants the wraith says they're called, these surreally mute
background presences whose presence really revealed that the camera, like any eye, has a perceptual corner, a triage of who's
important enough to be seen and heard v. just seen. A term from ballet, originally, figurant, the wraith explains. The wraith pushes
his glasses up in the vaguely snivelling way of a kid that's just got slapped around on the playground and says he personally spent
the vast bulk of his own former animate life as pretty much a figurant, furniture at the periphery of the very eyes closest to him, it
turned out, and that it's one heck of a crummy way to try to live. Gately, whose increasing self-pity leaves little room or patience
for anybody else's self-pity, tries to lift his left hand and wiggle his pinkie to indicate the world's smallest viola playing the theme
from The Sorrow and the Pity, but even moving his left arm makes him almost faint. And either the wraith is saying or Gately is
realizing that you can't appreciate the dramatic pathos of a figurant until you realize how completely trapped and encaged he is in
his mute peripheral status, because like say for example if one of 'Cheers!' 's bar's figurants suddenly decided he couldn't take it
any more and stood up and started shouting and gesturing around wildly in a bid for attention and nonperipheral status on the
show, Gately realizes, all that would happen is that one of the audibilizing 'name' stars of the show would bolt over from stage-
center and apply restraints or the Heineken Maneuver or CPR, figuring the silent gesturing figurant was choking on a beer-nut or
something, and that then the whole rest of that episode of 'Cheers!' would be about jokes about the name star's life-saving heroics,
or else his fuck-up in applying the Heineken Maneuver to somebody who wasn't choking on a nut. No way for a figurant to win.
No possible voice or focus for the encaged figurant. Gately speculates briefly about the suicide statistics for bottom-rung actors.
The wraith disappears and then reappears in the chair by the bed's railing, leaning forward with its chin on its hands on the railing
in what Gately's coming to regard as the classic tell-your-troubles-to-the-trauma-patient-that-can't-interrupt-or-get-away position.
The wraith says that he himself, the wraith, when animate, had dabbled in filmed entertainments, as in making them, cartridges,
for Gately's info to either believe or not, and but in the entertainments the wraith himself made, he says he goddamn bloody well
made sure that either the whole entertainment was silent or else if it wasn't silent that you could bloody well hear every single
performer's voice, no matter how far out on the cinematographic or narrative periphery they were; and that it wasn't just the self-
conscious overlapping dialogue of a poseur like Schwulst or Altman, i.e. it wasn't just the crafted imitation of aural chaos: it was
real life's real egalitarian babble of figurantless crowds, of the animate world's real agora, the babble <footnote>342</footnote> of crowds every
member of which was the central and articulate protagonist of his own entertainment. It occurs to Gately he's never had any sort of
dream where somebody says anything like vast bulk, much less agora, which Gately interprets as a kind of expensive sweater.
Which was why, the wraith is continuing, the complete unfiguranted egalitarian aural realism was why party-line entertainment-
critics always complained that the wraith's entertainments' public-area scenes were always incredibly dull and self-conscious and
irritating, that they could never hear the really meaningful central narrative conversations for all the unaltered babble of the
peripheral crowd, which they assumed the babble(7babel) was some self-conscious viewer-hostile heavy-art directorial pose,
instead of radical realism. The wraith's grim smile almost disappears before it appears. Gately's slight tight smile back is the way
you can always tell he's not really listening. He's remembering that he used to pretend to himself that the unviolent and sarcastic
accountant Nom on 'Cheers!' was Gately's own organic father, straining to hold young Bímmy on his lap and letting him draw
finger-pictures in the condensation-rings on the bartop, and when he was pissed off at Gately's mother being sarcastic and witty
instead of getting her down and administering horribly careful U.S.-Navy-brig-type beatings that hurt like hell but would never
bruise or show. The can of foreign Coke has left a ring on his forehead that's colder than the feverish skin around it, and Gately
tries to concentrate on the cold of the ring instead of the dead cold total ache on his whole right side -- DEXTRAL -- or the sober
memory of his mother Mrs. Gately's ex-significant other, the little-eyed former M.P. in khaki skivvies hunched drunk over his
notebook's record of his Heinekens for the day, his tongue in the corner of his mouth and his eyes scrunched as he tries to see a
unitary enough notebook to write in, Gately's mother on the floor trying to crawl off toward the lockable bathroom quietly enough
so the M.P. wouldn't notice her again. The wraith says Just to give Gately an idea, he, the wraith, in order to appear as visible and
interface with him, Gately, he, the wraith, has been sitting, still as a root, in the chair by Gately's bedside for the wraith-equivalent
of three weeks, which Gately can't even imagine. It occurs to Gately that none of the people that've dropped by to tell him their
troubles has bothered to say how many days he's even been in the Trauma Wing now, or what day it's going to be when the sun
comes up, and so Gately has no idea how long he's gone now without an AA meeting. Gately wishes his sponsor Ferocious
Francis G. would hobble by instead of Ennet Staff that want to talk about prosfeces and residents who come just to share remem-
bered wreckage with somebody they don't even think can even hear them, sort of the way a little kid confides to a dog. He doesn't
let himself even contemplate why no Finest or federally crew-cut guys have visited yet, if he's been in here a while, if they've been
all over the House like hamsters on wheat already, as Thrust had said. The seated shadow of somebody in a hat is still there out
there in the hall, though if the whole interlude was a dream it isn't and has never been there, Gately realizes, squinting a little to try
to make sure the shadow is the shadow of a hat and not a fire-extinguisher box on the hall wall or something. The wraith excuses
himself and disappears but then reappears two slow blinks later, back in the same position. 'That was worth an Excuse Me?'
Gately thinks at the wraith dryly, almost laughing. The sheet of pain from the near-laugh send his eyes way up back up in his
head. The chassis of the heart monitor doesn't look broad enough to support even a wraith's ass. The heart monitor's the silent
kind. It's got the moving white line with big speed bumps moving across it for Gately's pulse, but it doesn't make the sterile
beeping that old hospital-drama monitors did. Patients in hospital-dramas were frequently unconscious figurants, Gately reflects.
The wraith says he'd just paid a small quantumish call to the old spotless Brighton two-decker of one Ferocious Francis Gehaney,
and from the way the old Crocodile's shaving and putting on a clean white T-shirt, the wraith says, he predicts F.F. will be visiting
the Trauma Wing soon to offer Gately unconditional empathy and fellowship and acerbic Crocodilian counsel. Unless this was
just Gately himself thinking this up to keep a stiff upper attitude, Gately thinks. The wraith pushes his glasses up sadly. You never
think of a wraith looking sad or unsad, but this dream-wraith displays the whole affective range. Gately can hear the horns and
raised voices and U-turn squeals way down below on Wash, that indicate it's around OOOOh., the switching hour. He wonders
what something as brief as a car-horn-honk sounds like to a figurant that has to sit still for three weeks to be seen. Wraith, not
figurant, Gately meant, he corrects himself. He's lying here correcting his thoughts like he was talking. He wonders if his brain-
voice talks fast enough for the wraith not to have to like tap its foot and look at its watch between words. Are they words if they're
only in your head, though? The wraith blows its nose in a hankie that's visibly seen better epochs and says he, the wraith, when
alive in the world of animate men, had seen his own personal youngest offspring, a son, the one most like him, the one most
marvelous and frightening to him, becoming a figurant, toward the end. His end, not the son's end, the wraith clarifies. Gately
wonders if it offends the wraith when he sometimes refers to it mentally as it. The wraith opens and examines the used hankie just
like an alive person can never help but do and says No horror on earth or elsewhere could equal watching your own offspring open
his mouth and have nothing come out. The wraith says it mars the memory of the end of his animate life, this son's retreat to the
periphery of life's frame. The wraith confesses that he had, at one time, blamed the boy's mother for his silence. But what good
does that kind of thing do, he said, making a blurred motion that might have been shrugging. Gately remembers the former Navy
M.P. telling Gately's mother why it was her fault he lost his job at the chowder plant. 'Resentment Is The #l Offender' is another
Boston AA cliche Gately'd started to believe. That blame's a shell-game. Not that he wouldn't mind a private couple of minutes
alone in a doorless room with Randy Lenz, once he was up and capable again, though.
     The wraith reappears slumped back in the chair with his weight on his tailbone and his legs crossed in that Erdedyish upscale
way. He says Just imagine the horror of spending your whole itinerant lonely Southwest and West Coast boyhood trying
unsuccessfully to convince your father that you even existed, to do something well enough to be heard and seen but not so well
that you became just a screen for his own (the Dad's) projections of his own failure and self-loathing, failing ever to be really seen,
gesturing wildly through the distilled haze, so that in adulthood you still carried the moist flabby weight of your failure ever to
make him hear you really speak, carried it on through the animate years on your increasingly slumped shoulders -- only to find,
near the end, that your very own child had himself become blank, inbent, silent, frightening, mute. I.e. that his son had become
what he (the wraith) had feared as a child he (the wraith) was. Gately's eyes roll up in his head. The boy, who did everything well
and with a natural unslumped grace the wraith himself had always lacked, and whom the wraith had been so terribly eager to see
and hear and let him (the son) know he was seen and heard, the son had become a steadily more and more bidden boy, toward the
wraith's life's end; and no one else in the wraith and boy's nuclear family would see or acknowledge this, the fact that the graceful
and marvelous boy was disappearing right before their eyes. They looked but did not see his invisibility. And they listened but did
not hear the wraith's warning. Gately has that slight tight absent smile again. The wraith says the nuclear family had believed he
(the wraith) was unstable and was confusing the boy with his own (the wraith's) boyhood self, or with the wraith's father's father,
the blank wooden man who according to family mythology had 'driven' the wraith's father to 'the bottle' and unrealized potential
and an early cerebral hemorrhage. Toward the end, he'd begun privately to fear that his son was experimenting with Substances.
The wraith keeps having to push its glasses up. The wraith says almost bitterly that when he'd stand up and wave his arms for
them all to attend to the fact that his youngest and most promising son was disappearing, they'd thought all his agitation meant
was that he had gone bats from Wild Turkey-intake and needed to try to get sober, again, one more time.
     This gets Gately's attention. Here at last could be some sort of point to the unpleasantness and confusion of the dream. 'You
tried to get sober?' he thinks, rolling his eyes over to the wraith. 'More than once, you tried? Was it White-Knuckle? <footnote>343</footnote> Did
you ever Surrender and Come In?'
     The wraith feels along his long jaw and says he spent the whole sober last ninety days of his animate life working tirelessly to
contrive a medium via which he and the muted son could simply converse. To concoct something the gifted boy couldn't simply
master and move on from to a new plateau. Something the boy would love enough to induce him to open his mouth and come out
-- even if it was only to ask for more. Games hadn't done it, professionals hadn't done it, impersonation of professionals hadn't
done it. His last resort: entertainment. Make something so bloody compelling it would reverse thrust on a young self's fall into the
womb of solipsism, an-hedonia, death in life. A magically entertaining toy to dangle at the infant still somewhere alive in the boy,
to make its eyes light and toothless mouth open unconsciously, to laugh. To bring him 'out of himself,' as they say. The womb
could be used both ways. A way to say I AM SO VERY, VERY SORRY and have it heard. A life-long dream. The scholars and
Foundations and disseminators never saw that his most serious wish was: to entertain.
     Gately's not too agonized and feverish not to recognize gross self-pity when he hears it, wraith or no. As in the slogan 'Poor
Me, Poor Me, Pour Me A Drink.' With all due respect, pretty hard to believe this wraith could stay sober, if he needed to get
sober, with the combination of abstraction and tragically-misunderstood-me attitude he's betraying, in the dream.
     He'd been sober as a Mennonite quilter for 89 days, at the very tail-end of his life, the wraith avers, now back up on the silent
heart monitor, though Boston AA had a humorless evangelical rabidity about it that had kept his attendance at meetings spotty.
And he never could stand the vapid cliches and disdain for abstraction. Not to mention the cigarette smoke. The atmosphere of the
meeting rooms had been like a poker game in hell, had been his impression. The wraith stops and says he bets Gately's struggling
to hide his curiosity about whether the wraith succeeded in coming up with a figurant-less entertainment so thoroughly engaging
it'd make even an in-bent figurant of a boy laugh and cry out for more.
      Father-figure-wise, Gately's tried his best these last few sober months to fend off uninvited memories of his own grim
conversations and interchanges with the M.P.
      The wraith on the monitor now bends sharply at the waist, way over forward so his face is upside-down only cm. from
Gately's face -- the wraith's face is only about half the size of Gately's face, and has no odor -- and responds vehemently that No!
No! Any conversation or interchange is better than none at all, to trust him on this, that the worst kind of gut-wrenching
intergenerational interface is better than withdrawal or hidden-ness on either side. The wraith apparently can't tell the difference
between Gately just thinking to himself and Gately using his brain-voice to sort of think at the wraith. His shoulder suddenly
sends up a flare of pain so sickening Gately's afraid he might shit the bed. The wraith gasps and almost falls off the monitor as if
he can totally empathize with the dextral flare. Gately wonders if the wraith has to endure the same pain as Gately in order to hear
his brain-voice and have a conversation with him. Even in a dream, that'd be a higher price than anybody's ever paid to interface
with D. W. Gately. Maybe the pain's supposed to lend credibility to some Diseased argument for Demerol the wraith's going to
make. Gately feels somehow too self-conscious or stupid to ask the wraith if it's here on behalf of the Higher Power or maybe the
Disease, so instead of thinking at the wraith he simply concentrates on pretending to wonder to himself why the wraith is spending
probably months of aggregate wraith-time flitting around a hospital room and making pirouetted demonstrations with crooner-
photos and foreign tonic-cans on the ceiling of some drug addict he doesn't know from a rock instead of just quantuming over to
wherever this alleged youngest son is and holding very still for wraith-months and trying to have an interface with the fucking
son. Though maybe thinking he was seeing his late organic dad as a ghost or wraith would drive the youngest son bats, though,
might be the thing. The son didn't exactly sound like the steadiest hand on the old mental joystick as it was, from what the wraith's
shared. Of course this was assuming the mute figurant son even existed, this was assuming this wasn't all some roundabout way of
the Disease starting to talk Gately into succumbing to a shot of Demerol. He tries to concentrate on all this instead of
remembering what Demerol's warm rush of utter well-being felt like, remembering the comfortable sound of the clunk of his chin
against his chest. Or instead of remembering any of his own interchanges with his mother's live-in retired M.P. One of the highest
prices of sobriety was not being able to keep from remembering things you didn't want to remember, see for instance Ewell and
the fraudulent-grandiosity thing from his wie-nieish childhood. The ex-M.P. had referred to small children and toddlers as 'rug-
rats.' It was not a term of gruff affection. The M.P. had made the toddler Don Gately return empty Heineken bottles to the
neighborhood packy and then haul-ass on back with the bottle-deposits, timing him with a U.S.N.-issue chronometer. He never
laid a hand on Gately personally, that Don could recall. But he'd still been afraid of the M.P. The M.P.'d beaten his mother up on
an almost daily basis. The most hazardous time for Gately's mother was between eight Heinekens and ten Heinekens. When the
M.P. threw her on the floor and knelt down very intently over her, picking his spots and hitting her very intently, he'd looked like
a lobsterman pulling at his outboard's rope. The M.P. was slightly shorter than Mrs. Gately but was broad and very muscular, and
proud of his muscles, going shirtless whenever possible. Or in like sleeveless khaki military T's. He had bars and weights and
benches, and had taught the child Don Gately the fundamentals of free-weight training, with special emphasis on control and form
as opposed to just sloppily lifting as much weight as possible. The weights were old and greasy and their poundage pre-metric.
The M.P. was very precise and controlled in his approach to things, in a way Gately has somehow come to associate with all
blond-haired men. When Gately, at age ten, began to be able to bench-press more weight than the M.P., the M.P. had not taken it
in a good spirit and began refusing to spot him on his sets. The M.P. entered his own weights and repetitions carefully in a little
notebook, pausing to do this after each set. He always licked the point of the pencil before he wrote, a habit Gately still finds
repellent. In a different little notebook, the M.P. noted the date and time of each Heineken he consumed. He was the sort of person
who equated incredibly careful record-keeping with control. In other words he was by nature a turd-counter. Gately had realized
this at a very young age, and that it was bullshit and maybe crazy. The M.P. was very possibly crazy. The circumstances of his
leaving the Navy were like: shadowy. When Gately involuntarily remembers the M.P. now he also remembers -- and wonders
why, and feels bad -- that he never once asked his mother about the M.P. and why the fuck was he even there and did she actually
love him, and why did she love him when he flang her down and beat her up on a more or less daily basis for fucking years on
end. The intensifying rose-colors behind Gately's closed lids are from the hospital room lightening as the light outside the window
gets licoricey and predawn. Gately lies below the unoccupied heart-monitor snoring so hard the railings on either side of his bed
shiver and rattle. When the M.P. was sleeping or out of the house, Don Gately and Mrs. Gately never once talked about him. His
memory is clear on this. It wasn't just that they never discussed him, or the notebooks or weights or chronometer or his beating up
Mrs. Gately. The M.P.'s name was never even mentioned. The M.P. worked nights a lot -- driving a cheese-and-egg delivery
truck for Cheese King Inc. until he was terminated for embezzling wheels of Stilton and fencing them, then for a time on a mostly
automated canning line, pulling a lever that sent New England chowder out of hundreds of spigots into hundreds of lidless cans
with an indescribable plopping sound -- and the Gately home was like a different world when the M.P. was working or out: it was
like the very idea of the M.P. walked out the door with him, leaving Don and his mother not just behind but alone, together, at
night, she on the couch and he on the floor, both gradually losing consciousness in front of broadcast TV's final seasons. Gately
tries especially hard now not to explore why it never occurred to him to step in and pull the M.P. off his mother, even after he
could bench-press more than the M.P. The precise daily beatings had always seemed in some strangely emphatic way not his
business. He rarely even felt anything, he remembers, watching him hit her. The M.P. was totally unshy about hitting her in front
of Gately. It was like everybody unspokenly agreed the whole thing was none of Bimmy's beeswax. When he was a toddler he'd
flee the room and cry about it, he seems to recall. By a certain age, though, all he'd do is raise the volume on the television, not
even bothering to look over at the beating, watching 'Cheers!' Sometimes he'd leave the room and go into the garage and lift
weights, but when he left the room it was never like he was fleeing the room. When he'd been small he'd sometimes hear the
springs and sounds from their bedroom sometimes in the A.M. and worry that the M.P. was beating her up on their bed, but at a
certain point without anybody taking him aside and explaining anything to him he realized that the sounds then didn't mean she
was getting hurt. The similarity of her hurt sounds in the kitchen and living room and her sex-sounds through the asbestos
fiberboard bedroom wall troubles Gately, though, when he remembers now, and is one reason why he fends off remembering,
when awake.
      Shirtless in the summer -- and pale, with a blond man's dislike for the sun -- the M.P. would sit in the little kitchen, at the
kitchen table, feet flat on the wood-grain tiling, with a patriotic-themed bandanna wrapped around his head, recording Heinekens
in his little notebook. A previous tenant had thrown something heavy through the kitchen window once, and the window's screen
was fucked up and not quite flush, and houseflies came and went more or less at will. Gately, when small, would be in there in the
kitchen with the M.P. sometimes; the tile was better for his little cars' suspensions than nubbly carpet. What Gately remembers, in
pain, bubbling just under the lid of sleep, is the special and precise way the M.P. would handle the flies that came into the kitchen.
He used no swatter or rolled cone of Herald. He had fast hands, the M.P., thick and white and fast. He'd whack them as they lit on
the kitchen table. The flies. But in a controlled way. Not hard enough to kill them. He was very controlled and intent about it. He'd
whack them just hard enough to disable them. Then he'd pick them up real precisely and remove either a wing or like a leg,
something important to the fly. He'd take the wing or leg over to the beige kitchen waste-basket and very deliberately hike the lid
with the foot-pedal and deposit the tiny wing or leg in the wastebasket, bending at the waist. The memory is unbidden and very
clear. The M.P.'d wash his hands at the kitchen sink, using green generic dishwashing liquid. The maimed fly itself he'd ignore
and allow to scuttle in crazed circles on the table until it got stuck in a sticky spot or fell off the edge onto the kitchen floor. The
conversation with the M.P. that Gately reexperiences in minutely dreamed detail was the M.P., at about five Heinekens,
explaining that maiming a fly was way more effective than killing a fly, for flies. A fly was stuck in a sticky spot of dried
Heineken and agitating its wing as the M.P. explained that a well-maimed fly produced tiny little fly-screams of pain and fear.
Human beings couldn't hear a maimed fly's screams, but you could bet your fat little rug-rat ass other flies could, and the screams
of their maimed colleagues helped keep them away. By the time the M.P. would put his head on his big pale arms and grab a little
shut-eye among the Heineken bottles on the sun-heated table there'd often be several flies trapped in goo or scuttling in circles on
the table, sometimes giving odd little hops, trying to fly with one wing or no wings. Possibly in Denial, these flies, as to their like
condition. The ones that fell to the floor Gately would hunch directly over on hands and knees, getting one big red ear down just
as close to the fly as possible, listening, his big pink forehead wrinkled. What makes Gately most uncomfortable now as he starts
to try to wake up in the lemonlight of true hospital morning is that he can't remember putting the maimed flies out of their misery,
ever, after the M.P. passed out, can't mentally see himself stepping on them or wrapping them in paper towels and flushing them
down the toilet or something, but he feels like he must have; it seems somehow real vital to be able to remember his doing
something more than just hunkering blankly down amid his Transformer-cars and trying to see if he could hear tiny agonized
screams, listening very intently. But he can't for the life of him remember doing more than trying to hear, and the sheer cerebral
stress of trying to force a more noble memory should have awakened him, on top of the dextral hurt; but he doesn't come all the
way awake in the big crib until the memory's realistic dream bleeds into a nasty fictional dream where he's wearing Lenz's worsted
topcoat and leaning very precisely and carefully over the prone figure of the Hawaiian-dressed Nuck whose head he's whacked
repeatedly against the hood's windshield, he's supporting his inclined weight on his good left hand against the warm throbbing
hood, bent in real close to the maimed head, his ear to the bleeding face, listening very intently. The head opens its red mouth.
     The wet start Gately finally wakes with jars his shoulder and side and sends a yellow sheet of pain over him that makes him
almost scream into the window's light. For about a year once at age twenty in Maiden he'd slept most nights in a home-built loft in
the dorm of a certain graduate R.N.-nursing program in Maiden, with a ragingly addicted R.N.-nursing student, in the loft, which
you needed a five-rung ladder to get up into this loft and the thing was only a couple of feet under the ceiling, and every A.M.
Gately'd awake out of some bad dream and sit up with a jolt and thwack his head against the ceiling, until after some time there
was a permanent concavity in the ceiling and a flattish spot in the curve of the top of his forehead he can still feel, lying here
blinking and holding his head with his good left hand. For a second, blinking and red with A.M. fever, he thinks he sees Ferocious
Francis G. in the bedside chair, chin freshly shaved and dotted with bits of Kleenex, posture stolid, his old man's saggy little tits
rising slowly under a clean white T-, smiling grimly around blue tubes and an unlit cigar between his teeth and saying 'Well kid at
least you're still on this side of the fuckin' sod, I guess there's something to be said for that there. And are you as yet sober, then?'
the Crocodile says coolly, disappearing and then not reappearing after several blinks.
     The forms and sound in the room is really only three White Flaggers Gately's never known or connected with that well, but
are apparently here stopping in on their way to work, to show empathy and support, Bud O. and Glenn K. and Jack J. Glenn K. in
daytime wears the gray jumpsuit and complex utility-belt of a refrigeration technician.
     'And who's the fellow in the hat outside?' he's asking.
     Gately grunts in a frantic way that suggests the phoneme ü.
     'Tall, well-dressed, grumpy, cocky-looking, piggy-eyed, wearing a hat. Civil-Service-looking. Black socks and brown shoes,'
Glenn K. says, pointing out toward the door where there's sometimes been the ominous shadow of a hat.
     Gately's teeth taste long-unbrushed.
     'Looking settled in for a stay, surrounded with sports pages and the takeout foods of many cultures, Laddie,' says Bud O., who
the story from before Gately's time goes once hit his wife so hard in the blackout that made him Come In he broke her nose and
bent it over flat against her face, which he asked her never to have repaired, as a daily visual reminder of the depths drink sunk
him to, so Mrs. O. had gone around with her nose bent over flat against her left cheek -- Bud O.'d tagged her with a left cross --
until U.H.I.D. referred her to Al-Anon, which eventually nurtured and supported Mrs. O. into eventually telling Bud O. to take a
flying fuck to the moon and getting her nose realigned back out front and leaving him for a male Al-Anon in Birkenstock sandals.
Gately's bowels have gone watery with dread: he has all-too-clear memories of a certain remorseless Revere A.D.A.'s brown
shoes, piggy eyes, Stetson w/ feather, and penchant for Third World takeout. He keeps grunting pathetically.
     Unsure how to be supportive, for a while the Flaggers try to cheer Gately up by telling him CPR jokes. 'CPR' is their term for
Al-Anon, which is known to Boston AAs as the 'Church of Perpetual Revenge.'
     'What's an Al-Anon Relapse?' asks Glenn K.
     'It is a twinge of compassion,' says Jack J., who has a kind of a facial tic.
     'But what is an Al-Anon Salute?' Jack J. asks back.
     The three all pause, and then Jack J. puts the back of his hand to his brow and flutters his lashes martyrishly at the drop-
ceiling. They all three of them laugh. They have no clue that if Gately actually laughs he'll tear his shoulder's sutures. One side of
Jack J.'s face goes in and out of a tortured grimace that doesn't affect the other side of his face one bit, something that's always
given Gately the fantods. Bud O. is waggling his finger disapprovingly at Glenn K., to signify an Al-Anon Handshake. Glenn K.
gives a lengthy impression of an Al-Anon mom watching her alcoholic kid marching in some parade and getting more and more
outraged at how everybody's out of step except her kid. Gately closes his eyes and moves his chest up and down a few times in a
dumbshow of polite laughter, so they'll think they've cheered him up and screw. The little thoracic movements make his dextral
regions make him want to bite the side of his hand in pain. It's like a big wooden spoon keeps pushing him just under the surface
of sleep and then spooning him up for something huge to taste him, again and again.