     Plus it was also creepy that, when the face's effulgence becomes the boiled white of the Trauma Wing ceiling as he comes up
with a start up for air, the apparently real nondream Joelle van D. is leaning over the bed's crib-railing, wetting Gately's big
forehead and horror-rounded lips with a cool cloth, wearing sweatpants and a sort of loose brocaded hulpil whose lavender almost
matches the selvage on her clean veil. The hulpil's neckline is too high for there to be much cleavage-action as she leans over him,
which Gately regards as probably kind of a mercy. The two brownies Joelle's got in her other hand (and her nails are bitten down
to the ragged quick, just like Gately's) she says she liberated from the nurses' station and brought down for him, since Morris H.
meant them for him and they're by all just rights his. But she can see he's in no shape to swallow, she says. She smells like peaches
and cotton, and there's a sweet evil whiff of the discount Canadian gaspers so many of the residents smoke, and underneath those
smells Gately can detect that she's got on a bit of perfume. <footnote>347</footnote>
     To amuse him she says 'And Lo' several times. Gately makes his chest go up and down rapidly to signify amusement. He
declines either to moo or mew at her, out of embarrassment. Her veil this morning has a springy light-purple around the border,
and the hair framing the veil seems a darker red, duskier, than when she'd first come into the House and refused meat. Gately
hadn't been much into WYYY or Madame Psychosis, but he'd sometimes run into people who were -- Organics men, mostly,
opium and brown heroin, terrible mulled wine -- and he feels on top of the febrile pain and the creepiness of the amphetaminic-
wraith- and Winston-Churchill-face-Joelle-and angelic-maternal-Death-Joelle-drearns an odd vividness in himself at being
swabbed and maybe even generally admired by someone who's an underground local intellectual-dash-art-type celebrity. He
doesn't know how to explain it, like as if the fact that she's a public personage makes him feel somehow physically actuated, like
more there-feeling, conscious of the way he's holding his face, hesitant to make his barnyard sounds, even breathing through his
nose so she won't smell his unbrushed teeth. He feels self-conscious with her, Joelle can tell, but what's admirable is he has no
idea how heroic or even romantic he looks, unshaven and intubated, huge and helpless, wounded in service to somebody who did
not deserve service, half out of his tree from pain and refusing narcotics. The last and pretty much only man Joelle ever let herself
admire in a romantic way had left and wouldn't even face up to why, instead erecting for himself a pathetic jealous fantasy about
Joelle and his own poor father, whose only interest in Joelle had been first aesthetic and then anti-aesthetic.
      Joelle doesn't know that newly sober people are awfully vulnerable to the delusion that people with more sober time than
them are romantic and heroic, instead of clueless and terrified and just muddling through day-by-day like everybody else in AA is
(except maybe the fucking Crocodiles).
      Joelle says she can't stay long this time: all nonworking residents have to report for the House's a.m. daily-meditation
meeting, as Gately knows only too well. He isn't sure what she means by 'this time.' She describes the newest male resident's
weird limbo-injury posture, and the way Johnette Foltz has to cut up this Dave guy's supper and drop it into his open mouth bit by
bit like a bird with a chick. Lifting her face to the ceiling makes the linen veil conform to the features of the face below, mouth
open wide in imitation of a chick. The crewneckish hulpil makes her hair's loose curls look dark and her wrists and hands look
pale. Her hands's skin is taut and freckled and treed with veins. His bed's metal bars keep Gately's rolling eyes from seeing
anything much south of her thorax until Joelle finishes with the washcloth and retreats to the edge of the other bed, which at some
point has become empty and the crying guy's chart removed, and its crib-railings folded down, and she sits on the edge of the bed
and crosses her legs, supporting one huarache's heel on the railing's joint, revealing she's got on white socks under flesh-colored
huaraches and ancient baggy old birch-colored sweatpants with B.U.M. down one leg, which Gately's pretty sure he's seen at the
Sunday A.M. Big Book meeting on Ken Erdedy, and belong to Erdedy, and he feels a flash of something unpleasant that she'd be
wearing the upscale kid's pants. The A.M. light outside has gone from sunny yellow-white to now a kind of old-dime gray, with
what looks like serious wind.
      Joelle eats the cream-cheese brownies Gately can't eat and works at pulling a kind of big notebookish thing out of her broad
cloth purse. She talks about last night's St. Columbkill's <footnote>248</footnote> Meeting, where they'd all gone unsupervised because Johnette F.
had to stay and keep an eye on Glynn who was sick and on Henderson and Willis, who were under legal quarantine upstairs.
Gately racks his RAM for which fucking night St. Columbkill's is. Joelle says how last night's was St. Collie's once-a-month
format where instead of a Commitment they had that round-robin discussion where somebody in the hall spoke for five minutes
and then picked the next speaker out of the hall's crowd. There'd been a Kentuckian there, which Gately might recall she was from
Kentucky? A Kentucky newcomer there, Wayne something, a real damaged-looking boy who hailed from the good old Blue Grass
State but of late resided in a disconnected drainage pipe off a watershed facility down in the Allston Spur, he'd said. This guy, she
said, said he was nineteen or thereabout, looked 40-some+, had clothes that looked to be decomposing on him even as he stood at
the podium, had a ripe odor of drainage about him that produced hankies as far back as the fourth row, which he explained the
odor by admitting his residential drainage pipe was in fact 'mostly' disconnected, like as in little-used. Joelle's voice is nothing like
the hollow resonant radio-voice and she uses her hands a lot to talk, trying to recreate the whole thing for Gately. Trying to give
him a little bit of a meeting, Gately realizes, with a slight tight smile of disbelief that he can't dredge up a mental meeting schedule
so he'll know what day this is.
      Some of the St. Columbkillers were saying it was the longest single blackout they'd ever heard of. This Wayne fellow'd said
he had no idea when, why or how he'd ended up so far up north as metro Boston ten years after his last memory. Most compelling,
visually, Wayne had had a deep diagonal furrow in his face, extending from right eyebrow to left lip-corner -- Joelle traces the
length and angle with a ragged-nailed finger across her veil -- splaying his nose and upper lip and rendering him so violently
cross-eyed he seemed to address both corners of the front row at the same time. This old Wayne boy'd sketched how the facial
dent -- what Wayne had called 'the Flaw,' pointing at it like people might need help seeing what he was talking about -- derived
from his very own personal hard-drinking alcoholic & chicken-farmer Daddy, in the grip of the post-binge Horrors and seeing
subjective pests in a big way, one day, up and hitting Wayne at age nine smack in the face with a hatchet one time when Wayne
couldn't tell him where a certain Ball jar of distilled spirits had been hidden the day before, against the possibility of the Horrors.
It had been just him and his Daddy and his Maw -- '"that was feeble"' -- and 7.7 acres of chicken farm, Wayne had said. Wayne
said the Flaw had just about healed up fine with fresh air and plenty of exercise when his Daddy, trying one Monday P.M. to get
outside a late lunch of mush and syrup, up and clutched his skull, turned red and then blue and then purple, and died. Little Wayne
had reportedly wiped the face clean of mush, dragged the dead body under the farmhouse porch, wrapped it in Purina Chicken-
Chow sacks, and told his feeble Maw his Daddy had gone off to lay up drunk. The diagonal-dented kid had apparently then gone
off to school as usual, done some discreet w.o.m. advertising, and had brought home with him a different set of boys each day for
almost a week, charging them a fiveski a head to crawl under the porch and eyeball a bona fried dead man. Late Friday p.m., he
recollected, he'd set off with hard currency to the billiard establishment where the niggers <footnote>349</footnote> that sold distilled Ball jars to his
late Daddy was at, getting set to ' "lay up drunk as a cock on jimson." ' The next thing this Wayne boy says he knows, he wakes up
in the partially disconnected NNE pipe, one millennial decade older and with some ' "right nasty" ' medical issues the timer's bell
prevents him from sharing in detail.
      And this old Wayne boy had up and pointed to Joelle to come speak next. 'Almost as if he knew. As if he gut-intuited some
sort of kinship, affinity of origin.'
      Gately grunted softly to himself. He figured guys with ten-year blackouts who live in pipes probably didn't have to much to
go on besides your gut-type intuitions. He knew he needed to be reminded that this strange girl was only about three weeks clean
and still leaching Substances out of her tissues and still utterly clueless, but he felt like he resented it whenever he got reminded.
Joelle had the big flat book in her lap and was looking down at her thumb and flexing it, watching it flex. What was disconcerting
was that when her head was down the veil hung loose at the same vertical angle as when her head was up, only now it was
perfectly smooth and untextured, a smooth white screen with nothing behind it. A loudspeaker down the hall gave those
xylophone dings that meant God knows what all the time.
      When Joelle's head came back up, the reassuring little hills and valleys of veiled features reappeared behind the screen. 'I'm
going to have to take off here in a second,' she said. 'I could come on back after, if you want. I can bring anything you think you'd
like.'
      Gately hiked an eyebrow at her, to get her to smile.
      'Hopefully since your fever went down they said they'll decide you're out of the woods and take that out, finally,' Joelle said,
looking at Gately's mouth. 'It's got to hurt, and Pat said you'll feel better when you can start quote sharing what you're feeling.'
     Gately hiked both eyebrows.
     'And you can tell me what you'd like brought. Who you'd want to have come. Whom.'
     Moving his left arm north along his chest and throat to get the left hand up to feel at his mouth made the whole right side sing
with pain. A skin-warmed plastic tube led in from the right side and was taped to his right cheek and went into his mouth and went
down his throat past where his fingers could feel at the back of his mouth. He hadn't been able to feel it in his mouth or going
down the back of his throat to he didn't want to know where, or even the tape on his cheek. He'd had like this like tube in his
throat the whole time and hadn't even known it. It had been in there so long by the time he came up for air he'd gotten like
unconsciously used to it and hadn't even known it was there. Maybe it was a feeding tube. The tube was probably why he could
only mew and grunt. He probably didn't have permanent voice damage. Thank God. He made his thoughts capitalized and
Thanked God several times. He pictured himself at a lavish Commitment podium, like at an AA convention, off-handedly saying
something that got an enormous laugh.
     Either Joelle had some sort of problem with her thumb or she'd just got really interested in watching the thumb flex and
twiddle. She was saying 'It's strange, not knowing it's coming, then standing up there to speak. Folks you don't know. Things I
don't realize I think til I say them. On the show I was used to knowing quite well what I thought before I spoke. This isn't like
that.' She seemed to be addressing herself to the thumb. 'I took a page from your manual and shared my complaint about the "But
For the Grace of God," and you were right, they just laughed. But I also ... I hadn't realized til I found myself telling them that I'd
stopped seeing the "One Day at a Time" and "Keep It in the Day" as trite cliches. Patronizing.' Gately noticed she still talks about
Recovery-issues in a stiff proper intellectualish way she doesn't talk about other stuff with. Her way of still keeping it all at arm's
length a little. A mental thumb to pretend to look at while she talks. It was all right; Gately's own way of keeping it at arm's length
at the start had involved an actual arm. He pictured her laughing as he tells her that, the veil billowing mightily in and out. He
smiled around the tube, which Joelle saw as encouragement. She said 'And why Pat in counselling keeps telling me just to build a
wall around each individual 24-hour period and not look over or back. And not to count days. Even when you get a chip for 14
days or 30 days, not to add them up. In counselling I'd just smile and nod. Being polite. But standing up there last night, I didn't
even share it aloud, but I realized suddenly that this was why I'd never been able to stay off the stuff for more than a couple weeks.
I'd always break down, go back. Freebase.' She looks up at him. 'I 'based, you know. You knew that. You all see the Intake forms.'
     Gately smiles.
     She said 'This was why I couldn't get off and stay off. Just as the cliche warns. I literally wasn't keeping it in the day. I was
adding the clean days up in my head.' She cocked her head at him. 'Did you ever hear of this fellow Evel Knievel? This
motorcycle-jumper?'
     Gately nods slightly, being careful of a tube he now feels. This is why his throat had had that raped feeling in it. The tube. He
actually has an old cutout action picture of the historical Evel Knievel, from an old Life magazine, in a white leather Elvisish suit,
in the air, aloft, haloed in spotlights, upright on a bike, a row of well-waxed trucks below.
     'At St. Collie only the Crocodiles'd heard of him. My own Daddy'd followed him, cut out pictures, as a boy.' Gately can tell
she's smiling under there. 'But what I used to do, I'd throw away the pipe and shake my fist at the sky and say As God is my
fucking witness NEVER AGAIN, as of this minute right here I QUIT FOR ALL TIME.' She also has this habit of absently patting
the top of her head when she talks, where little barrettes and spongy clamps hold the veil in place. 'And I'd bunker up all white-
knuckled and stay straight. And count the days. I was proud of each day I stayed off. Each day seemed evidence of something, and
I counted them. I'd add them up. Line them up end to end. You know?' Gately knows very well but doesn't nod, lets her do this on
just her own steam. She says 'And soon it would get. .. improbable. As if each day was a car Knievel had to clear. One car, two
cars. By the time I'd get up to say like maybe about 14 cars, it would begin to seem like this staggering number. Jumping over 14
cars. And the rest of the year, looking ahead, hundreds and hundreds of cars, me in the air trying to clear them.' She left her head
alone and cocked it. 'Who could do it? How did I ever think anyone could do it that way?'
     Gately remembered some evil fucking personal detoxes. Broke in Maiden. Bent with pleurisy in Salem. MCI/Billerica during
a four-day lockdown that caught him short. He remembered Kicking the Bird for weeks on the floor of a Revere Holding cell,
courtesy of the good old Revere A.D.A. Locked down tight, a bucket for a toilet, the Holding cell hot but a terrible icy draft down
near the floor. Cold Turkey. Abrupt Withdrawal. The Bird. Being incapable of doing it and yet having to do it, locked in. A
Revere Holding cage for 92 days. Feeling the edge of every second that went by. Taking it a second at a time. Drawing the time in
around him real tight. Withdrawing. Any one second: he remembered: the thought of feeling like he'd be feeling this second for 60
more of these seconds -- he couldn't deal. He could not fucking deal. He had to build a wall around each second just to take it.
The whole first two weeks of it are telescoped in his memory down into like one second -- less: the space between two heartbeats.
A breath and a second, the pause and gather between each cramp. An endless Now stretching its gull-wings out on either side of
his heartbeat. And he'd never before or since felt so excruciatingly alive. Living in the Present between pulses. What the White
Flaggers talk about: living completely In The Moment. A whole day at a crack seemed like tit, when he Came In. For he had
Abided With The Bird.
     But this inter-beat Present, this sense of endless Now -- it had vanished in Revere Holding along with the heaves and chills.
He'd returned to himself, moved to sit on the bunk's edge, and ceased to Abide because he no longer had to.
     His right side is past standing, but the hurt is nothing like the Bird's hurt was. He wonders, sometimes, if that's what Ferocious
Francis and the rest want him to walk toward: Abiding again between heartbeats; tries to imagine what kind of impossible leap it
would take to live that way all the time, by choice, straight: in the second, the Now, walled and contained between slow
heartbeats. Ferocious Francis's own sponsor, the nearly dead guy they wheel to White Flag and call Sarge, says it all the time: It's
a gift, the Now: it's AA's real gift: it's no accident they call it The Present.
     'And yet it wasn't til that poor new pipe-fellow from home pointed at me and hauled me up there and I said it that I realized,'
Joelle said. 'I don't have to do it that way. I get to choose how to do it, and they'll help me stick to the choice. I don't think I'd
realized before that I could -- I can really do this. I can do this for one endless day. I can. Don.'
     The look he was giving her was meant to like validate her breakthrough and say yes yes she could, she could as long as she
continued to choose to. She was looking right at him, Gately could tell. But he'd also gotten a personal prickly chill all over from
his own thinking. He could do the dextral pain the same way: Abiding. No one single instant of it was unendurable. Here was a
second right here: he endured it. What was undealable-with was the thought of all the instants all lined up and stretching ahead,
glittering. And the projected future fear of the A.D.A., whoever was out there in a hat eating Third World fast food; the fear of
getting convicted of Nuckslaugh-ter, of V.I.P.-suffocation; of a lifetime on the edge of his bunk in M.C.I. Walpole, remembering.
It's too much to think about. To Abide there. But none of it's as of now real. What's real is the tube and Noxzema and pain. And
this could be done just like the Old Cold Bird. He could just hunker down in the space between each heartbeat and make each
heartbeat a wall and live in there. Not let his head look over. What's unendurable is what his own head could make of it all. What
his head could report to him, looking over and ahead and reporting. But he could choose not to listen; he could treat his head like
G. Day or R. Lenz: clueless noise. He hadn't quite gotten this before now, how it wasn't just the matter of riding out the cravings
for a Substance: everything unendurable was in the head, was the head not Abiding in the Present but hopping the wall and doing
a recon and then returning with unendurable news you then somehow believed. If Gately got out of this, he decided, he was going
to take the Knievel picture off his wall and mount it and give it to Joelle, and they'd laugh, and she'd call him Don or The Bimster,
etc.
      Gately rolls his eyes way over to the right to see Joelle again, who she's using both pale hands to get the big book open on her
sweatpants' lap. Gray windowlight shines on clear plastic sheets like little laminates inside the thing.
      '. .. idea to haul this out last night and was looking at it. I wanted to "show you my own personal Daddy,' she says. She's
holding the photo album out at him, wide open, like a kindergarten teacher at storytime. Gately makes a production of squinting.
Joelle comes over and rests the big album on the top of Gately's crib-railing, peering down over the top and pointing at a snapshot
in its little square sleeve.
      'Right there's my Daddy.' In front of a low white porch-railing, a generic lean old guy with lines around his nose from
squinting into sunlight and the composed smile of somebody that's been told to smile. A skinny dog at his side, half in profile.
Gately's more interested in how the shadow of whoever took the photo is canted into the shot's foreground, darkening half the dog.
      'And that's one of the dogs, a pointer that got hit right after that by a UPS truck out to 104,' she says. 'Where no animal with a
lick of sense would think it had business being. My Daddy never names dogs. That one's just called the one that got hit by the
UPS truck.' Her voice is different again.
      Gately tries to Abide in seeing what she's pointing at. Most of the rest of the page's pictures are of farm-type animals behind
wooden fences, looking the way things look that can't smile, that don't know a camera's looking. Joelle said her personal Daddy
was a low-pH chemist, but her late mother's own Daddy had left them a farm, and Joelle's Daddy moved them out there and jick-
jacked around with farming, mostly as an excuse to keep lots of pets and stick experimental low-pH stuff in the soil.
      At some point in here an all-business nurse comes in and fucks with the I.V. bottles, then hunkers down and changes the
catheter-receptacle under the bed, and for a second Gately likes to die of embarrassment. Joelle seems not even to be pretending
not to notice.
      'And this right here's a bull we used to call Mr. Man.' Her slim thumb moves from shot to shot. The sunlight in Kentucky
looks bright-yellower than NNE's. The trees are a meaner green and have got weird mossy shit hanging from them. 'And this right
here's a mule called Chet that could jump the fence and used to get at everybody's flowers out along Route 45 til Daddy had to put
him down. This is a cow. This right here's Chet's mama. It's a mare. I don't recollect any kind of name except "Chet's Mama."
Daddy'd let her out to neighbors that really did farm, to sort of make up for folks' flowers.'
      Gately nods studiously at each photo, trying to Abide. He hasn't thought about the wraith or the wraith-dream once since he
woke up from the dream where Joelle was Mrs. Waite as a maternal Death-figure. Next life's Chet's Mama. He opens his eyes
wide to clear his head. Joelle's head is down, looking down at the open album from overhead. Her veil hangs loose and blank
again, so close he could reach his left hand up and lift it if he wanted. The open book she's moving her hand around in gives
Gately an idea he can't believe he's only having now. Except he worries because he isn't left-handed. Which is to say SINISTRAL.
Joelle's got her thumb by a weird old sepia shot of the ass and hunched back of some guy scrabbling up the slope of a roof. 'Uncle
Lum,' she says, 'Mr. Riney, Lum Riney, my Daddy's partner over to the shop, that breathed some kind of fume at the shop when I
was little, and got strange, and now he'll always try and climb up on top of shit, if you let him.'
      He winces at the pain of moving his left arm to put a hand on her wrist to get her attention. Her wrist is thin across the top but
oddly deep, thick-seeming. Gately gets her to look at him and takes the hand off her wrist and uses it to mime writing awkwardly
in the air, his eyes rolling a bit from the pain of it. This is his idea. He points at her and then out the window and circles his hand
back to her. He refuses to grunt or moo to emphasize anything. His forefinger is twice the size of her thumb as he again mimes
holding an implement and writing on the air. He makes such a big slow obvious show of it because he can't see her eyes to be sure
she gets what he's after.
      If a halfway-attractive female so much as smiles at Don Gately as they pass on the crowded street, Don Gately, like pretty
much all heterosexual drug addicts, has within a couple blocks mentally wooed, shacked up with, married and had kids by that
female, all in the future, all in his head, mentally dandling a young Gately on his mutton-joint knee while this mental Mrs. G.
bustles in an apron she sometimes at night provocatively wears with nothing underneath. By the time he gets where he's going, the
drug addict has either mentally divorced the female and is in a bitter custody battle for the kids or is mentally happily still hooked
up with her in his sunset years, sitting together amid big-headed grandkids on a special porch swing modified for Gately's mass,
her legs in support-hose and orthopedic shoes still damn fine, barely having to speak to converse, calling each other 'Mother' and
'Papa,' knowing they'll kick within weeks of each other because neither could possibly live without the other, is how bonded
they've got through the years.
      The projective mental union of Gately and Joelle ('M.P.') van Dyne keeps foundering on the vision of Gately knee-dandling a
kid in a huge blue- or pink-bordered veil, however. Or tenderly removing the spongy clamps of Joelle's veil in moonlight on their
honeymoon in Atlantic City and discovering just like one eye in the middle of her forehead or a horrific Churchill-face or
something. <footnote>350</footnote> So the addictive mental long-range fantasy gets shaky, but he still can't help envisioning the old X, with Joelle
well-veiled and crying out And Lo! in that empty compelling way at the moment of orchasm -- the closest Gately'd ever come to
Xing a celebrity was the ragingly addicted nursing-student with the head-banging loft, who'd borne an incredible resemblance to
the young Dean Martin. Having Joelle share personal historical snapshots with Gately leads his mind right over the second's wall
to envision Joelle, hopelessly smitten with the heroic Don G., volunteering to bonk the guy in the hat outside the room over the
head and sneak Gately and his tube and catheter out of St. E.'s in a laundry cart or whatever, saving him from the BPD Finest or
Federal crew cuts or whatever direr legal retribution the guy in the hat might represent, or else selflessly offering to give him her
veil and a big dress and let him hold the catheter under the muumuu and sashay right out while she huddles under the covers in
impersonation of Gately, romantically endangering her recovery and radio career and legal freedom, all out of a Liebestod-type
consuming love for Gately.
     This last fantasy makes him ashamed, it's so cowardly. And even contemplating a romantic thing with a clueless newcomer is
shameful. In Boston AA, newcomer-seducing is called I3th-Stepping <footnote>351</footnote> and is regarded as the province of true bottom-
feeders. It's predation. Newcomers come in so whacked out, clueless and scared, their nervous systems still on the outside of their
bodies and throbbing from detox, and so desperate to escape their own interior, to lay responsibility for themselves at the feet of
something as seductive and consuming as their former friend the Substance. To avoid the mirror AA hauls out in front of them. To
avoid acknowledging their old dear friend the Substance's betrayal, and grieving it. Plus let's not even mention the mirror-and-
vulnerability issues of a newcomer that has to wear a U.H.I.D veil. One of Boston AA's stronger suggestions is that newcomers
avoid all romantic relationships for at least a year. So somebody with some sober time predating and trying to seduce a newcomer
is almost tantamount to rape, is the Boston consensus. Not that it isn't done. But the ones that do it never have the kind of sobriety
anybody else respects or wants for themselves. A I3th-Stepper is still running from the mirror himself.
     Not to mention that a Staffer seducing a new resident he's supposed to be there to help would be dicking over Pat Montesian
and Ennet House on a grand scale.
     Gately sees it's probably no accident that his vividest Joelle-fantasies are coincident with flight-from-Finest-and-legal-
responsibility fantasies. That his head's real fantasy is this newcomer helping him avoid, escape, and run, joining him later in like
Kentucky on a modified porch swing. He's still pretty new himself: wanting somebody else to take care of his mess, somebody
else to keep him out of his various cages. It's the same delusion as the basic addictive-Substance-delusion, basically. His eyes roll
up in his head at disgust with himself, and stay there.