     After Stice and Incandenza split the first two sets and Hal dashed into the locker room at the break to put Collyrium-brand
eyewash in eyes that were bothering him and deLint made warped crashing sounds on the tiers as he walked down the bleachers
and over to have a word with Stice, who was squatting against the net-post holding his left arm up like a scrubbed surgeon and
applying a towel to the arm, deLint's place up next to Helen Steeply was taken by female prorector Thierry Poutrincourt, freshly
showered, long-faced, a non-U.S. citizen, a tall Québecer former Satellite pro in rimless specs and a violetish ski cap just enough
of a shade away from the journalist's hat to make the people behind them pretend to shield their eyes from the clash. The putative
newshound introduced herself and asked Poutrincourt who the heavy-browed kid was at the end of the top bleacher behind them,
hunched over and gesturing and speaking into his empty fist.
     'James Troeltsch of Philadelphia is better to leave alone to play the broadcaster to himself. He is a strange and unhappy,'
Poutrincourt said, her face long and cavern-cheeked and not terribly happy-looking itself. Her slight shrugs and way of looking
elsewhere while speaking were not unlike Rémy Marathe's. 'When we hear you are the journalist for shiny perfumed magazines of
fad and trend we are told be unfriendly, but me, I think I am friendly.' Her smile was rictal and showed confused teeth. 'My
family's loved ones also are large of size. It is difficult to be large.'
     Steeply's pre-assignment decision was to let all size-references pass as if there was some ability to screen out any reference to
size or girth, originating possibly in adolescence. 'Your Mr. deLint certainly held himself aloof.'
     'DeLint, when we prorectors are suggested to do a thing, he asks to himself only: how can I perfectly do this thing so the
superiors will smile with pleasure at deLint.' Poutrincourt's right forearm was almost twice the size of her left. She wore white
sneakers and a Donnay warmup of a deep glowing neutron-blue that clashed hideously with both their caps. The circles beneath
her eyes were also blue.
     'Why the instructions to be unfriendly?'
     Poutrincourt always nodded for a while before she replied to anything, as if things had to go through various translation-
circuits. She nodded and scratched at her long jaw, thinking. 'You are here to make publicity a child player, one of our
étoiles, <footnote>273</footnote> and Dr. Tavis, he is how you say quantified -- `
     'Quarantined. Suspicious. Guarded.'
     'No....'
     'Confused. Torn. In a quandary.'
     'Quandary is how. Because this is a good place, and Hal is good, better since before the present, perhaps now he is étoile.' A
shrug, long arms akimbo. Hal reemerged from Comm.-Ad. and, ankle-brace or no, displayed a slow loose thoroughbred trot past
the pavilion and bleachers and to the gate in #i2.'s southern fence, acting as if unwatched by people in bleachers, and tapped two
of his big-headed tennis racquets together to listen for the strings' pitch, exchanging some neutral words with deLint, who was
standing with Stice at the edge of the transom's shadow, Stice breaking into a half-laugh at something, twirling his racquet and
walking back to serve as Hal retrieved a ball along the north fence. Both players' racquets had large heads and thick frames.
Thierry Poutrincourt said 'And by nature who does not wish the shiny attention, that the magazines with cologne on their pages
say this is étoile, Enfield Tennis Academy it is good?'
     'I'm here to do a soft inoffensive profile on his brother, with Hal mentioned only as part of an American family exceptional in
several respects. I don't see what's quandariacal for Dr. Tavis about this.' The tiny plump officious man who seemed to have a
phone tucked under his chin at all times, the kind of frenzied over-cooperation that's a technical interviewer's worst nightmare for
an interrogation; the little man's monologue had done to Steeply's brain kind of what a flashbulb does to your eyes, and if he'd
explicitly denied him access to the brother then the denial had been slipped in after he'd worn Steeply down.
     There was the slight shaken-saw wobble of bleachers as deLint walked back up, stacked charts against his chest like a
schoolgirl's books, his smile at the Québecois player in his seat as if he'd never met her before, settling in heavily on Steeply's
other side, glancing down at where the profiler'd bracketed notes on the possible sounds a string-hit ball sounds like in cold air:
cut, king, ping, pons, pock, cop, thwa, thwat.
     The samizdat Entertainment's director's other son chipped a return that caught the tape and sat there a moment and fell back.
     "Veux que nous nous parlons en français? Serait plus facile, ça?' This invitation because Poutrincourt's eyes had gone hooded
the minute the de-Lint person joined them.
     Poutrincourt's shrug was blase: Francophones are never impressed that anyone else can speak French. 'Very well then look:'
she said (Poutrincourt did, in Québecois), 'pubescent stars are nothing new to this sport. Lenglen, Rosewall. In a.d. 1887 a fifteen-
year-old girl won Wimbledon, she was the first. Evert in the semifinals of the US Open at sixteen, '71 or '2. Austin, Jaeger, Graff,
Sawamatsu, Venus Williams. Borg. Wilander, Chang, Treffert, Med-vedev, Esconja. Becker of the A.D. '8os. Now this new
Argentinean Kleckner.'
     Steeply lit a Flanderfume that made deLint's face spread with distaste. 'You compare it is like gymnastics, figure skating,
competitive to-swim.'
     Poutrincourt made no comment on Steeply's syntax. 'Just so, then. Good.'
     Steeply was adjusting the long peasant skirt and crossing legs so he was inclined away from deLint, gazing at a kind of
translucent mole on Poutrincourt's long cheek. Poutrincourt's thick rimless specs were like a scary nun's. She looked more male
than anything, long and hard and breastless. Steeply tried to exhale away from everyone. 'The world-plateau tennis not being
required to have neither the size and muscle of the hockey nor the basketball nor the American football, for example.'
     Poutrincourt nodded. 'But yes, nor the millimetric precision of your baseball's hitting, nor how the Italians say the senza
errori, the never-miss consistency, that keeps the golfers from true mastery until they have thirty or more years.' The prorector
switched for just a moment to English, possibly for deLint's benefit: 'Your French is Parisian but possible. Me, mine is
Québecois.'
     Steeply now got to give that same sour Gallic shrug. 'You're saying to me serious tennis doesn't need of an athlete anything
already adolescents do not possess, if they are exceptional for it.'
     'The medicinists of sports science know well what top tennis requires,' Poutrincourt said, back in French. 'Too well, which are
the agility, the reflexes, <footnote>274</footnote> the short-range speed, the balance, some coordination between the hand and the eye, and very
much endurance. Some strength, with particular importance for the male. But all these are achievable by the period of puberty, for
some. But yes, but wait,' she said, putting a hand on the notebook as Steeply started to pretend to inscribe. 'The thing you have put
as the question to me. This is why the quandary. The young players, they have the advantage in psyche, also.'
     'The edge of mentality,' Steeply said, trying to ignore the boy speaking into his hand several seats over. DeLint seemed to be
ignoring everything around him, engrossed in the match and his statistics. The Canadian prorec-tor's hands moved in small circles
out front to indicate engagement in the conversation. Americans' conversational hands sit like lumps of dough most of the time,
Rémy Marathe had pointed out once.
     'But yes, so, the formidable mental edge that their psyches are still not yet adult in all ways -- therefore, so, they do not feel
the anxiety and pressure in the way it is felt by adult players. This is every story of the teenager appearing from no location to
upset the famous adult in professional play -- the ephebic, they do not feel the pressure, they can play with abandon, they are
without fear.' A cold smile. Sunlight blazed on her lenses. 'At the beginning. At the beginning they are without pressure or fear,
and they burst from seemingly no location onto the professional stage, instant étoiles, phenomenal, fearless, immunized to
pressure, numb to anxiety -- at first. They seem as if they are like the adult players only better -- better in emotion, more
abandoned, not human to the stress or fatigue or the airplaning without end, to the publicity.'
     'The English expression of the child in the store of candy.'
     'Seemingly unfeeling of the loneliness and alienation and everyone wants a thing from the étoile.'
     'The money, also.'
     'But it is soon you start to see the burning out which the place like ours is hoping to prevent. You remember Jaeger, burned
out at sixteen, Austin at twenty. Arias and Krickstein, Esconja and Treffert, too injured to play on by their late teenage years. The
much-promising Capriati, the well-known tragedy. Pat Cash of Australia, fourth on earth at eighteen, vanished by the twenties of
age.'
     'Not to be mentioning the large money. The endorsings and appearings.'
     'Always so, for the young étoile. And now worse in today, that the sponsors have no broadcasting to advertise with. Now the
ephebe who is famous étoile, who is in magazines and the sports reports aux disques, he is pursued to become the Billboard Who
Walks. Use this, wear this, for money. Millions thrown at you before you can drive the cars you buy. The head swells to the size
of a balloon, why not?'
     'But can pressure be far behind the back?' Steeply said.
     'Many times the same. Winning two and three upset matches, feeling suddenly so loved, so many talking to you as if there is
love. But always the same, then. For then you awaken to the fact that you are loved for winning only. The two and three wins
created you, for people. It is not that the wins made them recognize something that existed unrecognized before these upset wins.
The from-noplace winning created you. You must keep winning to keep the existence of love and endorsements and the shiny
magazines wanting your profile.'
     'Enter the pressure,' Steeply said.
     'Pressure such as one could not imagine, now that to maintain you must win. Now that winning is the expected. And all alone,
in the hotels and the airplanes, with any other player you could speak to of the pressure to exist wanting to beat you, wanting to be
exist above and not below. Or the others, wanting from you, and only so long as you play with abandon, winning.'
     'Hence the suicides. The burn-out. The drugs, the self-indulging, the spoilage.'
     'What is the instruction if we shape the ephebe into the athlete who can win fearlessly to be loved, yet we do not prepare her
for the time after fear comes, no?'
     'Therefore the terrible pressure here. They are being tempered. Oven-toughened.'
     Hal served wide and this time followed it in, the serve, taking a stutter-step at the service line. Slice's body seemed to elongate
as he reached and got the stick up over the return, driving a forehand. Hal volleyed it too short and took a couple steps off the net
as Stice came in, winding up for an easy pass. Hal guessed a direction and started to his left, and The Darkness chipped a lob right
over him and hit the heel of his hand against his strings as Hal gave it up halfway back, Stice not rubbing it in but exhorting
himself. Hal's sweat was way heavier than the Kansan's, but Slice's face was almost maroon with flush. Each player twirled his
stick in his hand as Hal walked back to retrieve the ball. Stice took his position in the deuce court, pulling up his socks.
     'Still smart for Hal to follow the serve in once a game or so,' deLint said into Steeply's ear.
     And irritating throughout was the heavy-browed red-nostriled kid James Troeltsch at the very end of the top bleacher,
speaking into his fist, coming at the fist from first one angle and then another, pretending to be two people:
     'Incandenza the controller. Incandenza the tactician.
     'Rare tactical lapse for Incandenza, following the serve in when he's just finally started establishing control from the baseline.
     'Have a look at Incandenza standing there waiting for Ortho Stice to finish futzing with his socks so he can serve. The
resemblance to statues of Augustus of Rome. The regal bearing, the set of the head, the face impassive and emanating command.
The chilly blue eyes.
     'The chilly reptilian film of concentration in the cold blue eyes, Jim.
     'The Halster's been having some trouble controlling his volleys.
     'Personally, Jim, I think he'd be better off with his old midsized graphite stick than that large head the creepy Dunlop guy got
him to switch to.
     'Stice being the younger player out there, he's grown up with the extra-large head. A large head is all The Darkness knows.
     'You could say Stice was born with a large head, and that Incandenza's a man who's adapted his game to a large head.
     'Hal's career dating back to before your polycarbonate resins changed the whole power-matrix of the junior game, too, Jim.
     'And what a day for tennis.
     'What a day for family fun of all kinds.
     This Bud's for the Whole Family. It's the Bud Match of the Week. Brought to you.
     'Incandenza even reported to have modified his grip, all to accommodate the large head.
     'And by the Multiphasix family of fine graphite-reinforced polycarbonate resins, Ray.
     'Jim, Ortho Stice -- impossible to even visualize Stice without his trusty large head.
     'It's all they know, these kids.'
     DeLint hiked back onto an elbow on the tier above and told James Troeltsch to regulate the volume or he was going to take a
personal interest in seeing Troeltsch suffer.
     Hal bounced the ball three times, tossed, rocked farther back on the toss, and absolutely crunched the serve, spinless and
wickedly angled out wide, Stice grotesquely off-balance, lunging too far and hitting the backhand cramped, down the line and
shallow. Hal moved in to the service line for it, hunched and with his stick cocked up behind him, looking somehow insec-tile.
Stice stood in the middle of the baseline awaiting pace and was helpless when Hal shortened the stroke and dribbled it at an angle
cross-court, barely clearing the net and distorted with backspin and falling into the half-meter of fair space the acuteness of the
angle allowed.
     'Hal Incandenza has the greater tennis brain,' Poutrincourt said in English.
     Hal aced Stice down the center to go up either 2-1 or 3-2 in the third.
     'The thing you want to know about Hal, babe, is he's got a complete game,' deLint said as the boys changed ends of the court,
Stice holding two balls out before him on the face of his racquet. Hal went to the towel again. The children along the bottom tier
were leaning left and then right in tandem, amusing themselves. The apparition with the lens and metal pole was gone, overhead.
     'What you want to know, watching juniors at this level,' deLint says, still back on an elbow so his upper body was out of sight
and he was just legs and a voice in Steeply's cold ear. 'They all have different strengths, areas of the game they're better at, and
you can drown in profiling a match or a player in terms of the different strengths and the number of individual strengths.'
      'I am not here to profile the boy,' Steeply said, but in French again.
      DeLint ignored him. 'It's not just the strengths or the number of strengths. It's do they come together to make a game. How
complete is a kid. Has he got a game. Those kids at lunch you got to meet.'
      'But not speak to.'
      'The kid in the idiotic hat, Pemulis, Mike's got great, great volleys, he's a natural at net, great, great hand-eye. Mike's other
strength is he's got the best lob in East Coast juniors bar none. These are his strengths. The reason both of these kids you're
looking at out here right now can beat the living shit out of Pemulis is Pemulis's strengths don't give him a complete game.
Volleys're an offensive shot. A lob's a baseliner's weapon, counterpuncher. You can't lob from the net or volley from the baseline.'
      'He says Michael Pemulis's abilities cancel each other out,' <footnote>275</footnote> Poutrin-court said in the other ear.
      DeLint made the small salaam of iteration. 'Pemulis's strengths cancel each other out. Now Todd Possalthwaite, the littler kid
with the bandage on his nose from the soap-and-shower-slipping thing, Possalthwaite's also got a great lob, and while Pemulis'd
take him right now on pure age and power Possalthwaite's the technically superior player with the better future, because Todd's
built a complete game out of his lob.'
      'This deLint is wrong,' Poutrincourt said in Québecois, smiling rictally across Steeply at deLint.
      'Because Possalthwaite won't come in to net. Possalthwaite hangs back at any cost, and unlike Pemulis he works to develop
the groundstrokes to let him stay back and draw the other guy in and use that venomous lob.'
      'Which means at fourteen his game, it will never change or grow, and if he grows strong and wishes to attack he will never be
able,' Poutrincourt said.
      DeLint displayed so little curiosity about what Poutrincourt inserted that Steeply wondered if he had some French on the sly,
and made a private ideogram to this effect. 'Possalthwaite's a pure defensive strategist. He's got a gestalt. The term we use here for
a complete game is either gestalt or complete game.'
      Stice aced Hal out wide on the ad court again, and the ball got stuck in an intersticial diamond in the chain-link fencing, and
Hal had to put his stick down and use both hands to force the thing out.
      'Maybe for your article, though, the poop on this kid, the punter's brother -- Hal can't lob half as good as even Possalthwaite,
and compared to Ortho or Mike his net-play's pedestrian. But unlike his brother when he was here, see, Hal's strengths have
started to fit together. He's got a great serve, a great return of serve, and great, great groundstrokes, with great control and great
touch, great command of touch and spin; and he can take a defensive player and yank the kid around with his superior control, and
he can take an attacking player and use the guy's own pace against him.'
      Hal passed Stice off the backhand down the line and the ball looked sure to land fair, and then at the last possible second it
veered out, an abrupt tight curve out of bounds as if some freak gust came out of nowhere and blew it out, and Stice looked more
surprised than Hal did. The punter's brother's face registered nothing as he stood at the ad corner, adjusting something on his
strings.
      'But perhaps one does attain this, to win. Imagine you. You become just what you have given your life to be. Not merely very
good but the best. The good philosophy of here and Schtitt -- I believe this philosophy of Enfield is more Canadian than
American, so you may see I have prejudice -- is that you must have also -- so, leave to one side for a moment the talent and work
to become best -- that you are doomed <footnote>276</footnote> if you do not have also within you some ability to transcend the goal, transcend the
success of the best, if you get to there.'
      Steeply could see, off in the parking lot behind the hideous bulging neo-Georgian cube of the Community and Administration
Building, several small boys carrying and dragging white plastic bags to the nest of dumpsters that abutted the pines at the parking
lot's rear, the children pale and wild-eyed and conferring among themselves and casting anxious looks across the grounds at the
crowd behind the Show Court.
      'Then,' Poutrincourt said, 'and for the ones who do become the étoiles, the lucky who become profiled and photographed for
readers and in the U.S.A. religion make it, they must have something built into them along the path that will let them transcend it,
or they are doomed. We see this in experience. One sees this in all obsessive goal-based cultures of pursuit. Look at the Japonois,
the suicide rates of their later years. This task of us at the Enfield is more delicate still, with the étoiles. For, you, if you attain your
goal and cannot find some way to transcend the experience of having that goal be your entire existence, your raison de
faire, <footnote>277</footnote> so, then, one of two things we see will happen.'
      Steeply had to keep breathing on the pen to keep the point thawed.
      'One, one is that you attain the goal and realize the shocking realization that attaining the goal does not complete or redeem
you, does not make everything for your life "OK" as you are, in the culture, educated to assume it will do this, the goal. And then
you face this fact that what you had thought would have the meaning does not have the meaning when you get it, and you are
impaled by shock. We see suicides in history by people at these pinnacles; the children here are versed in what is called the saga
of Eric Clipperton.'
      'With two p's?'
      'Just so. Or the other possibility of doom, for the étoiles who attain. They attain the goal, thus, and put as much equal passion
into celebrating their attainment as they had put into pursuing the attainment. This is called here the Syndrome of the Endless
Party. The celebrity, money, sexual behaviors, drugs and substances. The glitter. They become celebrities instead of players, and
because they are celebrities only as long as they feed the culture-of-goal's hunger for the make-it, the winning, they are doomed,
because you cannot both celebrate and suffer, and play is always suffering, just so.'
      'Our best boy is better than Hal, you'll see him play tomorrow if you want, John Wayne. No relation to the real John Wayne.
A fellow compatriot of Terry here.' Aubrey deLint was sitting back up beside them, the cold giving his pitted cheeks a second
flush, two feverish harlequin ovals. 'John Wayne's got a gestalt because Wayne's simply got everything, and everything with him's
got the sort of pace that a touch-artist and thinker like Hal just can't handle.'
      'This was the Founder's philosophy, too, of doom, the punter Incan-denza's father, who also I am being told dabbled in
filming?' Steeply asked the Canadian.
      Poutrincourt's shrug could have meant too many things to note. 'I came after. M. Schtitt, his different goal for the étoiles is to
walk between these.' Nor did Steeply quite notice the woman's shifts between dialects. 'To map out some path between needing
the success and mockery-making of the success.'
      DeLint leaned in. 'Wayne's got everything. Hal's strength has become knowing he doesn't have everything, and constructing a
game as much out of what's missing as what's there.'
      Steeply pretended to arrange the cap but was really adjusting the wig. 'It all sounds awfully abstract for something so
physical.'
      Poutrincourt's shrug pushed her glasses slightly up. 'It is contradictory. Two selves, one not there. M. Schtitt, when the
Academy Founder died . . .'
      'The punter's father, who dabbled in films.' Steeply's raglan sweater had been his wife's.
      Again nodding blandly, Poutrincourt: 'This academic Founder, M. Schtitt tells that this Founder was a student of types of
sight.'
      DeLint said 'Wayne's only possible limits being also his strength, the tungsten-steel will and resolve, the insistence on
imposing his game and his will on his man, totally unwilling to change the pace of his game if he's not doing good. Wayne's got
the touch and the lobs to hang back on an off-day, but he won't -- if he's down or things aren't going his way, he just hits harder.
His pace is so overwhelming he can get away with being uncompromising about attack against North American juniors. But in the
Show, which Wayne'll go pro maybe as soon as next year, in the Show flexibility is more important, he'll find. What do you call, a
humility.'
      Poutrincourt was looking at Steeply almost too carelessly, it almost seemed. 'The studying was not so much how one sees a
thing, but this relation between oneself and what one sees. He translated this numerously across different fields, M. Schtitt tells.'
      The son described his father as quote "genre-dysphoric."
      Poutrincourt cocked her head. 'This does not sound like Hal Incan-denza.'
      DeLint sniffed meatily. 'But Wayne's gestalt's chief edge over Hal is the head. Wayne is pure force. He doesn't feel fear, pity,
remorse -- when a point's over, it might as well have never happened. For Wayne. Hal actually has finer groundstrokes than
Wayne, and he could have Wayne's pace if he wanted. But the reason Wayne is Three continentally and Hal's Six is the head. Hal
looks just as perfectly dead out there, but he's more vulnerable in terms of, like, emotionally. Hal remembers points, senses trends
in a match. Wayne doesn't. Hal's susceptible to fluctuations. Discouragement. Set-long lapses in concentration. Some days you
can almost see Hal like flit in and out of a match, like some part of him leaves and hovers and then comes back.'
      The Troeltsch person said 'Holy crow.'
      'So to survive here for later is, finally, to have it both ways,' Thierry Poutrincourt said quietly, in nearly accentless English, as
if to herself.
      'This emotional susceptibility in terms of forgetting being more commonly a female thing. Schtitt and I think it's a will issue.
Susceptible wills are more common to the top girls here. We see it in Longley, we see it in Millie Kent and Frannie Unwin. We
don't see this forgetful will in the Vaughts, or in Spodek, who you can watch if you want.'
      The Troeltsch person said 'Could we see that again, Ray, do you think?'
      Steeply was looking at the side of Poutrincourt's face as deLint on the other side was saying 'But the one we see this most in
is Hal.'