     Then, by the time Fortier was able to return to the dismantled shop, they had located a third cartridge emblazed with the
embossed smile and letters disclaiming need of happy pursuit, and, after some regretful losses, they had secured and verified it,
the samizdat cartridge of Entertainment burglared from the death of DuPlessis.
     Fortier was told the story. The cell's young Desjardins had been taking his turn in the viewing rotation, seated with young
Tassigny in the room of storage during the hours of early morning, sampling the dregs of unshelved entertainments found in
kitchen-can waste bags in the same closet the Anti-tois' cadavers were swelling within. Desjardins had just moments before
complained of the wasted time of cartridges scheduled for the coffre d'amas.
     Tassigny, who had been in the room of storage with Desjardins, then was saved by the need to leave this room to change the
bag of his partial colos-tomy. But, Marathe reported, they had lost Desjardins, and the older and valued Joubet also, who rolled
against orders into the room of storage to see why Desjardins had not been sending out the tapes for more tapes to sample. Both
were lost. They had not lost more only because someone had thought to wake up Broullîme, whom Fortier had briefed with care
on procedures for if the actual Entertainment was found by this viewing. But two were lost -- Joubet the red-bearded workhorse,
who loved to pop wheelies, and young Desjardins, so filled with the idealism and so young as to be still feeling the phantom pains
in his stumps. Rémy Marathe reported that the two had been made comfortable since their loss, allowed to remain in the locked
room of storage and view the Entertainment again and again, silent behind the door except when the watch-detail reported the
hearing of cries of impatience at the player's rewinder, to rewind. Marathe reported they had declined to come out for water or
food, or Joubet -- who was diabétique -- for his insulin. M. Broullîme estimated that it would be a matter of hours now for
Joubet, perhaps maybe one day or two days for Desjardins. Fortier had sadly said 'Bôf and acceptingly shrugged: all knew the
sacrifices that might have been required: all viewing details had taken their chances at random in the rotation of viewing.
     On Fortier's return, Marathe delivered also the expected bad news of the finding of it: there was no need yet for high-rpm
hardware of duplication: the found copy was Read-Only.303293
     Philosophical, Fortier reminded the A.F.R. that they did now encouragingly know the Entertainment of such power did truly
exist, for themselves, and could thus gird their courage and fortitude for the more indirect task of forfeiting hopes of securing a
Master copy and instead striving to secure the original Master, the auteur's own cartridge, from which all Read-Only copies had
presumably been copied.
     Thus, he said, now the more arduous and risky task of taking for technical interview known persons associated with the
Entertainment and locating the original maker's duplicable Master copy. None of this would have been worthy of the risk had they
not now determined, through the heroic sacrifices of Joubet and Desjardins, that the device for extending O.N.A.N.'s self-
destructing logic to its final conclusion lay within their arduous grasp.
     Fortier gave numerous orders. The platoon of A.F.R. remained in the closed Anritoi Entertainent shop, behind their lingual
window shade. Surveillance on the hated F.L.Q.'s bureau centrale, in the poorly disciplined house on Allston's Rue de Brainerd --
this was suspended, the A.F.R. personnel pulled in and relocated to this commandeered Inman Square shop, where Fortier and
Marathe and M. Broullîme coordinated phases of activity in this next more arduous and indirect phase, and reviewed tactics also.
     The deceased auteur's colleagues and relations were under consistent surveillance. Their concentration of place worked in the
favor of this. An employee at the Academy of Tennis of Enfield had been recruited and joined the Canadian instructor and student
already inside for closer work of surveillance. In the Desert, the redoubtable Mile. Luria P------was winning necessary confidences
with her usual alacrity. An expensive source in the Subject's former department of the M.I.T. University had reported the En-
tertainment's probable performer's last known employment -- the small Cambridge radio station which Marathe and Beausoleil
had pronounced Weee -- where she had donned the defacing veil of O.N.A.N.ite deformity.
     Attentions were to be focused on the cartridge's performer and on the Academy of Tennis of the auteur's estate. The fact that
the players of the Academy were to play a provincially-selected team from Quebec would have been easier to exploit had the
A.F.R. possessed a tennis player of talent and lower extremities. Inquiries into the composition and travel of the Québecois team
were under way from sources at home in Papineau.
     On the day of Fortier's return also, the performer's radio program's technical engineer of radio had been acquired in a public
but low-risk operation whose success had raised hopeful spirits for the acquisitions of more directly related persons to the
Entertainment in this next phase. This person of U.S.A. radio had divulged all he professed to know under the mere descriptive
threat of technical-interview procedures. Marathe, the best lay judge of Americans' veracity which the cell possessed, believed the
veracity of the engineer; but nevertheless a formal technical interview had proceeded, justified in order to verify. The young and
eruption-studded person's report remained consistent two levels past average U.S.A. endurance, the only variance involving
several curious claims that the Massachusetts Institute of Technology was defensive in bed.
     Today, Fortier himself, and Marathe, young Balbalis, R. Ossowiecke -- all those with the better English -- were thus now
therefore making the rounds of all Substance-Difficulty-Rehabilitation facilities in hospitals, psychiatric institutions, and demi-
maisons within a 25-km. radius. Procedures for expanding the radius of inquiry by factors of two and three had been pre-
formulated, teams assembled, lines rehearsed. Joubet and then Desjardins had succumbed and been transported north by van as
well with the remains of the Antitois' remains. The U.S.A. student radio engineering person, the veracity of whose limited
statements of the Subject's whereabouts Broullîme had verified to within +/-- (.35) of assurance well before debriefing-levels
incompatible with physical existence, had been allowed several hours to recover, then had become of service as the A.F.R.'s first
Subject in field-tests of the samizdat cartridge's motivational range. The room of storage again was utilized for this. His head
immobilized with some straps, the test Subject had viewed the Entertainment twice at gratis, without the application of any
motivational inquiry. For inquiry into the degree of motivation the cartridge will induce, M. Broullîme had rolled himself
blindfolded into the room of storage holding an orthopedic saw and informed the Subject of the test that, as of beginning now,
each subsequent reviewing of the Entertainment now would have the price of one digit from the Subject's extremities. And handed
the Subject the orthopedic saw in question, also. Broullîme's explanation to Fortier was that thus a matrix could be created to
compute the statistical relation between (n) the number of times the Subject replayed the Entertainment and (t) the amount of time
he took to decide and remove a digit for each subsequent (n +1) viewing. The goal was to confirm with statistical assurance the
Subject's desire for viewing and reviewing as incapable of satiation. There could be no index of diminishing satisfaction as in the
econometrics of normal U.S.A. commodities. For the samizdat Entertainment's allure to be macro-politically lethal, the ninth digit
of extremities had to come off as quickly and willingly as the second. Broullîme, personally he had some skepticism about this.
But this was Broullîme's function in his role in the cell: expertise in combination with skepticism de coeur.
     And then naturally also a wider range of field-test Subjects would then be required, to verify that this Subject's responses
were not merely subjective and typical only of a certain sensibility of entertainment-consumer. The bus window yielded a faint
and ghostly reflection of Fortier, and, through that faint view, the lights of urban life outside the bus. Somerville Massachusetts
U.S.A.'s Phoenix House administrative person had listened to Fortier's delivery with shows of great compassion, then explained
with patience that they were unable to admit addicted persons for whom English was the secondary language. D 'accord, though
he was pretending disappointment. Fortier had been able to see the admitted addicts of Phoenix House holding a gathering in the
room of living outside the office door: no person among them wore a veil of facial concealment, and so c'est ça. Four small teams
were at this moment rolling through the streets and small streets and alleys of the unpleasant district of the Antitoi establishment,
for the purpose of acquiring additional Subjects for M. Broullîme for the time when the Subject's digits were expended. The
Subjects for suitability had to be passively undefended enough to be acquired publicly with quiet, yet not damaged in the brains or
under the influence of the many of the district's intoxicant compounds. The A.F.R. were highly trained in patience and to be
disciplined.
     The southbound bus, empty and (which he detested) fluorescently lit, climbs a thin hill off Winter Park, north Cambridge,
heading for the Squares Inman and Central. Fortier looks out at the lights passing. He can smell snow coming; it soon will snow.
He sees in his imagination two-thirds of NNE's largest urban city inert, sybaritically entranced, staring, without bodily movement,
home-bounded, fouling their divans and the chairs which may recline. He sees the district of business's towers of buildings and
luxury apartments striated as two of every three floors is darkened to lightless black. With here and there the vaguely blue flicker
of expensive digital entertainment equipment flickering through darkened windows. He imagines M. Tine holding the hand
holding the pen of President J. Gentle as the O.N.A.N.ite President signs declaring War. He imagines teacups clinking thinly
beneath trembling hands in the interior sanctums of Ottawa's sanctum of power. He adjusts his sportcoat's lapel over his sweater
and smooths the wiry hair that tends to bulge unsmoothly around the bare spot. He watches the back of the bus driver's neck as the
driver stares straight ahead.