     Year of the Depend Adult Undergarment:
     InterLace TelEntertainment, 932/1864 R.I.S.C. power-TPs w/ or w/o console, Pink2, post-Primestar D.S.S. dissemination,
menus and icons, pixel-free InterNet Fax, tri- and quad-modems w/ adjustable baud, post-Web Dissemination-Grids, screens so
hígh-def you might as well be there, cost-effective videophonic conferencing, internal Froxx CD-ROM, electronic couture, all-in-
one consoles, Yushityu ceramic nanoprocessors, laser chromatography, Virtual-capable media-cards, fiber-optic pulse, digital
encoding, killer apps; carpal neuralgia, phosphenic migraine, gluteal hyperadiposity, lumbar stressae. Half of all metro Bostonians
now work at home via some digital link. 50% of all public education disseminated through accredited encoded pulses, absorb-able
at home on couches. Ms. Tawni Kondo's immensely popular exercise program spontaneously disseminated daily in all three
O.N.A.N. time zones at 0700h., a combination of low-impact aerobics, Canadian Air Force calisthenics, and what might be termed
'cosmetic psychology' -- upwards of 60 million North Americans daily kicking and genuflecting with Tawni Kondo, a mass
choreography somewhat similar to those compulsory A.M. tai chi slo-mo exercise assemblies in post-Mao China -- except that
the Chinese assemble publicly together. One-third of those 50% of metro Bostonians who still leave home to work could work at
home if they wished. And (get this) 94% of all O.N.A.N.ite paid entertainment now absorbed at home: pulses, storage cartridges,
digital displays, domestic decor -- an entertainment-market of sofas and eyes.
     Saying this is bad is like saying traffic is bad, or health-care surtaxes, or the hazards of annular fusion: nobody but Ludditic
granola-crunching freaks would call bad what no one can imagine being without.
     But so very much private watching of customized screens behind drawn curtains in the dreamy familiarity of home. A
floating no-space world of personal spectation. Whole new millennial era, under Gentle and Lace-Forché. Total freedom, privacy,
choice.
     Hence the new millennium's passion for standing live witness to things. A whole sub-rosa schedule of public spectation
opportunities, 'spect-ops,' the priceless chance to be part of a live crowd, watching. Thus the Gapers' Blocks at traffic accidents,
sewer-gas explosions, muggings, purse-snatchings, the occasional Empire W.D.V. with an incomplete vector splat-ting into North
Shore suburbs and planned communities and people leaving their front doors agape in their rush to get out and mill around and
spectate at the circle of impacted waste drawing sober and studious crowds, milling in rings around the impact, earnestly
comparing mental notes on just what it is they all see. Hence the apotheosis and intricate pecking-order of Boston street
musicians, the best of whom now commute to work in foreign autos. The nightly chance to crank back the drapes and face out into
the streets at 0000h., when all street-parked vehicles have to switch sides and everyone goes nuts and mills, either switching or
watching. Street fights, supermarket-checkout confrontations, tax-auctions, speeders stopped for ticketing, coprolaliac Touretters
on downtown corners, all drawing liquid crowds. The fellowship and anonymous communion of being part of a watching crowd, a
mass of eyes all not at home, all out in the world and pointed the same way. Q.v. the crowd-control headaches at crime-scenes,
fires, demonstrations, rallies, marches, displays of Canadian insurgency; crowds brought together now so quickly, too quickly
even to see them, a kind of visual inversion of watching something melt, the crowds collect and are held tight by an almost
seemingly nucleic force, watching together. Almost anything can do it. Street vendors are back. Homeless vets and twisted figures
in wheelchairs with hand-lettered signs outlining entitlement. Jugglers, freaks, magicians, mimes, charismatic preachers with
portable PAs. Hardcore panhandlers stem like they're selling nostrums to small crowds; the best panhandling now verges on stand-
up comedy, and is rewarded by watching crowds. Cultists in saffron with much percussion and laser-jet leaflets. Even some old-
style Eurobeggars, black-browed persons in striped leggings, mute and aloof. Even local candidates, activists, advocates and
grass-roots aides have returned full-circle to the public stump -- the bunting-hung platform, the dumpster-lid, vehicles' roofs,
awnings, anything overhead, anything raised to a crowd-collecting public view: people climb and declaim, drawing crowds.
     One top Back Bay public spect-op every November is watching expressionless men in federal white and municipal cadet-blue
drain and scrub the Public Gardens' man-made duck pond for the upcoming winter. They drain it sometime in November every
year. It's publicly unannounced; there's no fixed schedule; long shiny trucks just all of a sudden appear in a ring at pond's rim; it's
always a weekday c. mid-November; it's also always somehow a gray raw sad windy Boston day, gulls cartwheeling in a sky the
color of dirty glass, people mufflered and with new gloves on. Not your ideal sylvan-type day for conventional lounging or public
spectation. But a massive crowd always collects and thickens in a dense ring along the banks of the Public Gardens' pond. The
pond has ducks. The pond is perfectly round, its surface roughened to elephant skin by the wind, geometrically round and banked
with lawn-quality grass and shrubbery in even-spaced clumps, with park-type benches between the shrubs overhung by white-
barked willows who've now wept their yellow autumn grit onto the green benches and grass banks where an arc of crowd now
forms and thickens, watching duly designated authorities commence to drain the pond. Some of the pond's flightier ducks have
already decamped for points south, and more leave on some phylogenic cue just as the shiny trucks pull up, but the main herd
remains. Two private planes fly in lazy ellipses just under the cloud-cover overhead, banners strung out behind them advertising
four different levels of comfort and protection from Depend. The wind keeps blowing the banners sideways, möbiusizing them
and then straightening them back out with the loud pop of flags unfurling. From the ground the engines and banners' pops are too
faint to hear above the crowd-noise and ducks and wind's mean whistle. The swirling groundwind's so bad that U.S. Chief of
Unspecified Services Rodney Tine, standing with his hands at the small of his back at a window on the eighth floor of the State
House Annex on Beacon and Joy Sts., looking southwest and down at the concentric rings of pond and crowd and trucks, can see
wind-driven leaves and street-grit swirling right outside and pecking at this very window he stands before, massaging his coccyx.
     Dr. James O. Incandenza, filmmaker and almost a scopophile about spect-ops and crowds, never once missed this spectacle,
when alive and in town. Hal and Mario have both been to a few. So have several Ennet residents, though some of them weren't in
much of a position to remember. It seems as if everyone in metro Boston's seen at least one pond-draining. It's always the same
sort of grim windy Northeast November day where if you were at home you'd be eating earth-tone soups in a warm kitchen,
listening to the wind and glad of home and hearth. Every year Himself came was the same. The deciduous trees were always
skeletal, the pines palsied, the willows wind-whipped and nubbly, the grass dun and crunchy underfoot, the water-rats always
seeing the big drainage-picture first and gliding like night to the cement sides to flee. Always a crowd in thickening rings. Always
rollerblades on the Gardens' paths, lovers joined at the hand, Frisbee in the distance on the rim of the Gardens' other side's
hillside's slope, which faces away from the pond.
      U.S. Office of Unspecified Services Chief Rodney Tine stands at the unclean window for much of the morning, ruminative,
his posture a martial at-ease. A stenographer and an aide and a Deputy Mayor and the Director of the Massachusetts Division for
Substance Abuse Services, and Unspecified Services Regional Operatives Rodney Tine Jr.257247 and Hugh Steeply258248 all sit
silently in the conference room behind him, the stenographer's Gregg pen poised in mid-dictation. The eighth-floor window's
purview goes all the way to the ridge of the hillside at the Gardens' other end. Two Frisbees and what looks like a disembowelled
ring of Frisbee float back and forth along this ridge, dreamily floating back and forth, sometimes dipping below the ridge and lost,
for a moment, to the specular vision of Tine.
      Trying at the same time to give his bad skin some quality UV and a good chill's chap, the grad-work-study engineer of
M.I.T.'s WYYY-109 lies bare-chested on a silvery NASA-souvenir space blanket, supine and cruciform at about the angle of a
living-room recliner on the Public Gardens' far hillside. This is out by Arlington St., in the Gardens' southwest corner, hidden by
its ridge from the pond's basin and tourism booth and pavilion and the hub of radial paths and the giant verdigrised statues of
ducklings in a row commemorating Robert McCloskey's beloved and timeless Make Way for Ducklings. The Gardens' only other
slope is now the bowl of the former pond. The hillside's grassy decline, not too steep, runs at a wedge's angle down toward
Arlington St. and is one broad greensward, free of dog droppings because dogs won't go to the bathroom on inclined terrain.
Frisbees float on the ridge behind the engineer's head, and four lithe boys on the ridge play a game with a small beanbaggy ball
and bare blue feet. It is 5° C. The sun has the attenuated autumn quality of seeming to be behind several panes of glass. The wind
is bitter and keeps flopping unmoored sections of NASA blanket over parts of the engineer's body. Goose-pimples and real
pimples jostle each other for space on his exposed flesh. The student engineer's is the hillside's only metallic space blanket and
bare torso. He lies there splayed, wholly open to the weak sun. The WYYY student engineer is one of roughly three dozen human
forms scattered over the steep slope, a human collection without pattern or cohesion or anything to bind them, looking rather like
firewood before it's been gathered. Wind-bronzed sooty men in zipperless parkas and mismatched shoes, some of the Gardens'
permanent residents, sleeping or in stupors of various origin. Curled on their sides, knees drawn up, unopen to anything. In other
words huddled. From the great height of one of Arlington St.'s office buildings, the forms look like things dumped onto the
hillside from a great height. An overhead veteran'd be apt to see a post-battle-battlefield aspect to the array of forms. Except for
the WYYY engineer, all the men are textured in urban scuz, unshaven, yellow-fingered and exposure-bronzed. They have coats
and bedrolls for blankets and old twine-handle shopping bags and Glad bags for recyclable cans and bottles. Also huge camper's
packs without any color to them. Their clothes and appurtenances are the same color as the men, in other words. A few have steel
supermarket-carts filled with possessions and wedged by their owners' bodies against a downhill roll. One of the cart-owners has
vomited in his sleep, and the vomit has assumed a lava-like course toward the huddled form of another man curled just downhill.
One of the shopping carts, from upscale Bread & Circus, has an ingeniously convenient little calculator on its handlebar, designed
to let shoppers subtotal their groceries as they select them. The men have sepia nails and all somehow look toothless whether they
have teeth or not. Every so often a Frisbee lands among them. The loose ball makes a beanbaggy sound against players' feet above
and behind them. Two skinny and knit-capped boys descend very close to the engineer, chanting very softly 'Smoke,' ignoring all
the other forms, which anyone could tell are undercapitalized for purchasing Smoke. When his eyes are open he's the only one on
the hillside to see the round bellies of ascending ducks pass low overhead, catching a thermal off the hillside and rising to wheel
away left, due south. His WYYY-109 T-shirt and inhaler and glasses and M. Fizzy and spine-split copy of Metallurgy of Annular
Isotopes are just off the edge of the reflecting blanket. His torso is pale and ribby, his chest covered with tough little buttons of
acne scar. The hillside's grass is still pretty viable. One or two of the scattered fetal forms have black cans of burnt-out Sterno
beside them. Bits of the hillside are reflected in Arlington's storefronts and office windows and the glass of passing cars. An
unexceptional white Dodge or Chevy-type van pulls out of Arlington's traffic and does some pretty impressive parallel parking
along the curb at the hillside's bottom. A man in an ancient NATO-surplus wool greatcoat is up on his hands and knees to the
engineer's lower left, throwing up. Bits of chyme hang from his mouth and refuse to detach. There's little bloody threads in it. His
hunched form looks somehow canine on the uneven slope. The fetal figure wedged unconscious under the front wheels of the
shopping cart nearest the engineer has only one shoe, and that shoe's without laces. The exposed sock is ash-colored. Besides the
handicapped license plate, the only exceptional things about the van now idling at the curb far below are the tinted windows and
the fact that the van is spotless and twinkly with wax to about halfway up its panelled side, but above that line dirty and rust-
saucered and shamefully neglected-looking. The engineer has been turning his head this way and that, trying to tan evenly along
his whole jawline. The curbside van idles at a distant little point between his heels. Some of the hillside's forms have curled
themselves around bottles and pipes. A smell comes off them, rich and agricultural. The student engineer doesn't usually try to sun
and chap his skin at the same time, but chapping-ops have lately been scarce: since Madame Psychosis of '60+/-' took her sudden
leave of medical absence, the student engineer hasn't once had the heart to sit out on the Union's convoluted roof and monitor the
substitute shows.
      The engineer moves his upturned face back and forth. First, Madame was replaced by a Mass Comm. graduate student who
proved a crushing disappointment as a Miss Diagnosis; then Madame was publicly deemed irreplaceable by management, and the
engineer is now paid simply to cue her background music and then sit monitoring a live mike for a noiseless 60 minutes, which
means he has to stay in his booth maintaining 0-levels with a live mike and can't ascend with his receiver and cigarettes even if he
wanted to. The station's student manager's given the engineer written instructions on just what to say when people phone in during
the hour to inquire and wish Psychosis a speedy recovery from whatever might ail her. At once denying and encouraging rumors
of suicide, institutionalization, spiritual crisis, silent retreat, pilgrimage to the snow-capped East. the disappearance of someone
who's been only a voice is somehow worse instead of better. A terrible silence now, weeknights. A different silence altogether
from the radio-silence-type silence that used to take up over half her nightly show. Silence of presence v. silence of absence,
maybe. The silences on the tapes are the worst. Some listeners have actually come in and down through the deep cortex and into
the cold pink studio itself, to inquire. Some to allay this firm conviction that Madame was still actually still showing up and sitting
there by the mike but not saying anything. Another of the men sleeping nearby keeps punching at the air in his sleep. Almost all
the personal wee-hour inquiries are from listeners somehow bent, misshapen, speech-defective, vacantly grinning, damaged in
some way. The type whose spectacles have been repaired with electrician's tape. Shyly inquiring. Apologies for bothering
someone they can clearly see is not even there. Before the student manager's written instructions, the student engineer'd
wordlessly directed their attention to Madame's triptych screen with no silhouette behind it. Another white Dodge van, just as
unevenly clean and opaque-windowed, has appeared on the ridge above and behind the hillside's littered forms. It casts no visible
shadow. A Frisbee-ring caroms off the clean grille of its snout. It idles, its panel door facing the declivity and the other white van's
panel door far below. One hideous little inquirer had had a hat with a lens on it and seemed about to fall forward into the
engineer's lap. His attendant wanting some address where they might send something supportive and floral. The NASA blanket's
micronized aluminumoid coating is designed to refract every possible UV ray into the student engineer's bare skin. The engineer
knows about the ambulance and the Brigham and Women's ICU and five-day rehab ward from the thick swart girl Notkin, the one
with the disreputable hat and Film-Dept. I.D. who came down via the Basilar elevator late at night to retrieve some old tapes of
the program for the Madame's personal listening use, she said, and was fortunate enough to know the Madame in private life, she
said. The term is Treatment, Madame Psychosis is in long-term Treatment at something the bearded girl in the sooty hat obliquely
described as only half a house in some unbelievably unpleasant and low-rent part of the metro-area. This is the precise total of
what the WYYY engineer knows. He is shortly to have occasion to wish he knew a great deal more. Q.v. the dimpled steel ramp
now protruding from the squeakily opened panel door of the van on the ridge above and behind him. Q.v. the utter darkness inside
the idling van down along the Arlington St. curb, whose side panel's also been slid open from within. The southwest hillside is
copless: the Gardens' platoon of M.D.C. Finest are all in their souped-up golf carts over at the drained pond, throwing curved
sections of glazed doughnut into the ducks' shrubbery and telling a largely-dispersed-already crowd to please move along. The
ridge's Frisbees and hackysackers have abruptly vanished; there's now an eerie stillness like a reef when a shark cruises through;
the ridge's van's idling maw open and black, silver-tongued.
     Q.v. also the wheelchair that now all of a sudden shoots down the hillside's van's ramp as a madly squeaking brass-colored
blur, a snowplow-like scoop-type thing welded to it and out front skimming the ground and throwing off chaff from the swath of
grass it's mowing, moving terrifically fast, brakes unapplied, the legless figure up on burly stumps in the chair fleur-de-lis-with-
sword-stem-masked and bent far forward for a skier's pure speed, the huddled fetal hillside figures the speeding chair slaloms, the
dim glittered movements of arrangement for reception deep within the curbside van way at the bottom of the steep grade, the
engineer arching his neck way out to capture sun on the scarred hollows under his jaw, the shopping cart with the calculator
clipped by a squeaking rubberized wheel at an angle and sent clattering off down the hillside, spraying possessions, the homeless
shoe to which it had been roped skittering empty behind it and the cart's now shoeless unconscious owner just waving at the air in
front of his face in sleep as if at a bad D.T.-dream of lost shoe and worldly goods, the calculating cart whumping into the side of
the hunched man vomiting and flipping over and bouncing several times and the vomiting man rolling and yelping, vulgarities
echoing, the WYYY engineer now to be seen hiking himself up on a chill-reddened elbow with a start and starting to turn and
look above and behind him up at the ridge just as the speeding wheelchair with the hunched figure reaches him and the chair's
shovel scoops the engineer and his NASA blanket and shirt and book up and runs over the glasses and bottle of M. Fizzy with one
wheel and bears the engineer in the scoop up and away and down the steep grade toward the idling van at the bottom, a van whose
own angled ramp now slides out like a tongue or Autoteller's transaction-receipt, the NASA blanket blowing away from the
scooped engineer's flailing form about halfway down and suddenly aloft in a hillside thermal and blown far out over Arlington St.
traffic by the keen November wind, the madly squeaking wheelchair aloft over hillside moguls and coming back down and up
again, the snatched engineer in the chair's scoop appearing to the hillside's roused figures mostly as a hallucinatory waggle of bare
limbs and strangely wheezy shrieks for Help or at least to Look Out Below, all as the modified chair squeaks frantically straight
down the hillside's most efficient downward line toward the van with the ramp now idling in gear, its pipe's exhaust beating the
street in high-rpm idle, the NASA blanket twisting co-ruscant in the air high above the street, and the shriek-roused figures on the
hillside lying there still bent in and barely moving, stiff with cold and general woe, except for the hunched man, the unwell man
who'd been hit by the dislodged cart, who's rolled to a stop and is thrashing, holding the parts that were hit.