

       PRE-DAWN, 1 MAY Y.D.A.U. OUTCROPPING NORTHWEST OF TUCSON AZ U.S.A., STILL
       M. Hugh Steeply spoke quietly, after a prolonged silence of both operatives alone with their thoughts, upon this mountain.
Steeply faced still out, standing on the outcropping's lip, bare arms around him for some warmth, his dress's soiled back to
Marathe. Around the bonfire, far out below upon the desert floor, rotated a ring of smaller and palsied fires, persons carrying
torches or fires.
       'Do you ever think of viewing it?'
       Marathe did not reply. It was not impossible that the young persons carrying the torches were dancing.
       'Whether or not the A.F.R. ever even recover this alleged Master copy from the DuPlessis burglary,' Steeply said quietly;
'still, you guys have a Read-Only copy, at least one, you've told us, no?'
       'Yes.'
       'Nobody has this mysterious Master, but we've all got Read-Only's -- all the anti-O.N.A.N. cells have at least one Read-Only,
we're pretty sure.'
       Marathe said, 'M. Brullîme, he tells Fortier he thinks the CPCP of Alberta do not have any copy.'
       'Fuck the Albertans,' Steeply said. 'Who's worried about the Albertans? The Albertans' idea of a blow to the U.S. plexus is
they blow up rangeland in Montana. They're wackos.'
       'I have not been tempted,' Marathe said.
       Steeply's sound appeared as if he did not hear. 'We have more than one. Copies. Sure we can assume your boys know this.'
       Marathe dryly laughed. 'Confiscated from razzles of Berkeley, Boston. But who can know what is on them? Who can study
the Entertainment while detached?'
       Steeply's scratch on the arm had become overnight puffed, and there were cross-hatches of his scratching. 'But just between
us two, though. Tête to tête. You've never been even slightly tempted? I mean personally. You the person. Wife's condition be
damned. Kids be damned. Just for a second, slip into wherever you guys keep it and load it and have a quick look? To see what's
all the fuss, the irresistible pull of the thing?' He pivoted on one heel and looked, and cocked his head in a way of cynicism that
seemed to Marathe consummately U.S.A.
       Marathe coughed softly into his fist. His own dead father's Kenbeck pacemaker, it had been damaged accidentally by a
videophonic pulse of waves. This from a telephone call from the telephone company, a video call, advertising the videophony. M.
Marathe had picked up the ringing telephone; the videophonic pulse, it had come; M. Marathe had fallen, still holding a telephone
Rémy had never been instructed to answer first, to check. The advertisement, which was recorded, played its audible portion out
upon the floor beside his father's ear, audible between Marathe's mother's cries.
       Steeply raised and lowered himself on his shoes' toes. 'Us, Rod the God Tine's got Tom Flatto's I/O boys running tests around
the clock. 24-dash-7.'
       'Flatto, Thomas M., B.S.S. director of Input/Output testing, resident of Falls Church's community, a widower with three
children, one child with cystic fibrosis.'
       'Funny as an impacted follicle, Rémy. And no doubt the insurgent cells are all each doing work of your own, you guys with
your own Dr. Brullent or whomever, trying to find out what the Entertainment's appeal could be without sacrificing any of your
own.' Steeply again turned; he did this for emphasis. 'Or maybe you're willingly sacrificing your own. Yes? Willing volunteers in
chairs. Sacrificing self for the Greater and all that. By adult choice and all that. Just for the sake of causing us harm. Wouldn't
even want to think about how the A.F.R.'s conducting tests of the thing.'
       'C'est ça.'
       'But not so much for content,' Steeply said. 'Input/Output's exhaustive testing. Flatto's got them working on conditions and
environments for possible nonlethal viewing. Certain departments in Virginia, the developing theory is that it's holography.'
       'The samizdat.'
       'The filmmaker'd been a cutting-edge optics man. Holography, diffraction. He'd used holography a couple times before, and
in the context of a kind of filmed assault on the viewer. He was of the Hostile School or some such shit.'
       'Also a maker of reflecting panels for thermal weapons, and an important Annulateur, also, and amasser of the capital from
opticals, before hostility and film,' Marathe said.
       Steeply embraced himself. 'Tom Flatto's personal theory is the appeal's got something to do with density. The visual
compulsion. Theory's that with a really sophisticated piece of holography you'd get the neural density of an actual stage play
without losing the selective realism of the viewer-screen. That the density plus the realism might be too much to take. Dick Desai
in Data Production wants to go in with ALGOL and see if there are Fourier Equations in the root code's ALGOL, which would
signify holo-grammatical activity going on.'
     'M. Fortier finds the theories of content irrelevant.'
     Steeply cocked his head sometimes in a way that was both feminine and birdlike. He did this most often during silences. Also
he again removed something small from his painted lip. Also he spoke with more feminine inflection. Marathe committed all this
to his memories.

