     6 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     1610h. E.T.A. Weight Room. Freestyle circuits. The clank and click of various resistance-systems. Lyle on the towel
dispenser conferring with an extremely moist Graham Rader. Schacht doing sit-ups, the board almost vertical, his face purple and
forehead pulsing. Troeltsch by the squat rack blowing his nose into a towel. Coyle doing military presses with a bare bar. Carol
Spodek curling, intent on the mirror. Rader nodding as Lyle bends and leans in. Hal up on the spotter-shelf in back of the incline-
bench in the shadow of the monster copper beech through the west window doing single-leg toe-raises, for the ankle. Ingersoll at
the shoulder-pull, steadily upping the weight against Lyle's advice. Keith ('The Viking') Freer <footnote>68</footnote> and the ster-oidic fifteen-year-
old Eliot Kornspan spotting each other on massive barbell-curls next to the water cooler's bench, taking turns bellowing en-
couragement. Hal keeps pausing to lean down and spit into an old NASA glass on the floor by the little shelf. E.T.A. Trainer
Barry Loach walking around with a clipboard he doesn't write anything down on, but watching people intently and nodding a lot.
Axford with one shoe off in the corner, doing something to his bare foot. Michael Pemulis seated cross-legged on the cooler's
bench just off Kornspan's left hip, doing facial isometrics, trying to eavesdrop on Lyle and Rader, wincing whenever Kornspan
and Freer roar at each other.
     'Three more! Get it up there!'
     'Hoooowaaaaa.'
     'Get that shit up there man!'
     ' Gwwwhoooooowaaaaar
     'It raped your sister! It killed your fucking mother man!'
     'Huhl huhl huhl huhl gwwwww.'
     'Do it!'
     Pemulis makes his face very long for a while and then very short and broad, then all sort of hollow and distended like one of
Bacon's popes.
     'Well suppose' -- Pemulis can just make out Lyle -- 'Suppose I were to give you a key ring with ten keys. With, no, with a
hundred keys, and I were to tell you that one of these keys will unlock it, this door we're imagining opening in onto all you want to
be, as a player. How many of the keys would you be willing to try?'
     Troeltsch calls over to Pemulis, 'Do the deLínt-jerking-off face again!' Pemulis for a second lets his mouth gape slackly and
his eyes roll way up and flutters his lids, moving his fist.
     'Well I'd try every darn one,' Rader tells Lyle.
     'Huhl. Huhl. Gwwwwwivww.'
     'Motherfucker! Fucker!'
     Pemulis's wince looks like a type of facial isometric.
     'Do Bridget having a tantrum! Do Schacht in a stall!'
     Pemulis makes a shush-finger.
     Lyle never whispers, but it's just about the same. 'Then you are willing to make mistakes, you see. You are saying you will
accept 99% error. The paralyzed perfectionist you say you are would stand there before that door. Jingling the keys. Afraid to try
the first key.'
     Pemulis pulls his lower lip down as far as it will go and contracts his cheek muscles. Cords stand out on Freer's neck as he
screams at Kornspan. There's a little hanging mist of spittle and sweat. Kornspan looks like he's about to have a stroke. There are
90 kg. on the bar, which itself is 20 kg.
     'One more you fuck. Fucking take it.'
     'Fuck me. Fuck me you fuck. Gwwwwww.'
     'Take the pain.'
     Freer has one finger under the bar, barely helping. Kornspan's red face is leaping around on his skull.
     Carol Spodek's smaller bar goes silently up and down.
     Troeltsch comes over and sits down and saws at the back of his neck with the towel, looking up at Kornspan. 'I don't think all
the curls I've ever done all together add up to 110,' he said.
     Kornspan's making sounds that don't sound like they're coming from his throat.
     'Yes! Yiiissss!' roars Freer. The bar crashes to the rubber floor, making Pemulis wince. Every vein on Kornspan stands out
and pulses. His stomach looks pregnant. He puts his hands on his thighs and leans forward, a string of something hanging from his
mouth.
     'Way to fucking take it baby,' Freer says, going over to the box on the dispenser to get rosin for his hands, watching himself
walk toward the mirror.
     Pemulis starts very slowly to lean over toward Kornspan, looking around confidentially. He gets so his face is right up near
the side of Kornspan's mesomorphic head and whispers. 'Hey. Eliot. Hey.'
     Kornspan, bent over, chest heaving, rolls his head a little his way.
     Pemulis whispers: 'Pussy.'