      20 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
      IMMEDIATELY PRE-FUNDRAISER-EXHIBITION-FÊTE
      GAUDEAMUS IGITUR
      Usually, part of the experience of having the place you live in throw a gala is watching different people arrive for the
festivities -- the Warshavers, the Cartons and Peltasons and Prines, the Chins, the Middlebrooks and Gelbs, an incidental Lowell,
the Buckmans in their claret-colored Volvo driven by their silent grown son who you never see except when he's driving Kirk and
Binnie Buckman someplace. Dr. Hickle and his creepy niece. The Chawafs and Heavens. The Reehagens. The palsied and mega
wealthy Mrs. Warshaver with her pair of designer canes. The Donagan brothers from Svelte Nail. But usually we never get to see
them arriving, the friends and patrons of E.T.A., for the Fundraising exhibition and gala. Usually while they're arriving and getting
greeted by Tavis we're all down in the lockers, dressing and stretching, getting ready to exhibit. Getting shaved and taped by
Loach, etc.
      It must usually be an unusual occasion for the guests, too, because for the first few hours they're there to watch us play --
they're all audience -- then at some point with the last couple matches winding down the guys in white jackets with trays start
appearing in Comm.-Ad., and the gala starts, and then it's the guests who become the participants and performers.
      Dressing and stretching, wrapping grips with Gauze-Tex or filling a pouch with fuller's earth (Coyle, Freer, Slice, Traub) or
sawdust (Wagen-knecht, Chu), getting taped, those in puberty getting shaved and taped. A ritual. Even the conversation, usually,
such as it is, has a timeless ceremonial aspect. John Wayne hunched as always on the bench before his locker with his towel like a
hood over his head, running a coin back and forth over the backs of his fingers. Shaw pinching the flesh between his thumb and
first finger, acupressure for a headache. Everyone had gone into their like autopilot ritual. Possalthwaite's sneakers were pigeon-
toed under a stall door. Kahn was trying to spin a tennis ball on his finger like a basketball. At the sink, Eliot Kornspan was
blowing out his sinuses with hot water; no one else was anywhere near the sink. A certain number of hysterical pre-competition
rumors about the Quebec Jr. Team and the severity of the weather circulated and were refuted and shifted antigens and returned.
You could hear the high-register end of the wind even down here. The Csikszentmihalyi kid was doing a kind of piaffer in place,
his knees hitting his chest, stretching his hip-flexors out. Troeltsch sat up against his locker near Wayne, wearing a disconnected
headset and broadcasting his own match in advance. There were fart-accusations and -denials. Rader snapped a towel at
Wagenknecht, who liked to stand for long periods of time bent at the waist with his head against his knees. Arslanian sat very still
in a corner, blindfolded in what was either an ascot or a very fey necktie, his head cocked in the attitude of the blind. It was
unclear whether B squads would even get to play; no one was sure how many courts the M.I.T. Union had inside. Rumors flew
this way and that. Michael Pemulis was nowhere to be seen since early this A.M., at which time Anton Doucette said he'd seen
Pemulis quote 'lurking' out by the West House dumpsters looking quote 'anxiously depressed.'
      Then a small but univocal cheer went up from some of the players when Otis P. Lord appeared at the door, his cadaverous
dad escorting him, O.P.L. out of post-op and pale but looking his old self, with just a thin little choker-width bandage of gauze
around his neck from the monitor's removal and an odd ellipse of dry red skin around his mouth and nostrils. He came in and
shook a few hands and used the stall next to Postal Weight and left; he wasn't playing today.
      J. L. Struck was applying an astringent to areas of his jaw.
      An hysterical rumor that the Quebec players had been spotted coming down a ramp out of a charter-bus in the main lot and
were by all appearances not the Quebec J.D.C. and -W.C. squads but some sort of Special-Olympicish Quebec adult wheelchair-
tennis contingent -- this rumor flew wildly around the locker room and then died out when a couple of the sub-14's who burned
nervous energy by scampering around checking rumors scampered out and up the stairs to check the rumor and failed to return.
      Across the wall on the Female side we could easily hear Thode and Donni Stott invoking Camilla, goddess of speed and light
step. Thode had had an hysterical tantrum after breakfast because Poutrincourt hadn't showed for the Females' pre-match Staff
thing and looked to be AWOL. Loach et al. had outfitted Ted Schacht with a complex knee-brace with jointed aluminum struts
down both sides and a coin-sized hole in the elastic over the kneecap for dermal ventilation, and Schacht was lumbering around
between the stalls and the locker with his arms straight out and his weight on his heels pretending to walk like Frankenstein.
Several people talked to themselves at their lockers. Barry Loach was down on one knee shaving Hal's left ankle for tape. A
couple of us remarked how Hal wasn't eating the usual customary Snickers bar or AminoPal. Hal had his hands on Loach's shoul-
ders as the tape went on. A match-wrap is two horizontal layers just above the malleolus knob-thing, then straight down and four
times around the tarsus just in front of the joint, so there's a big gap for flexion of the joint, but a compacting and supportive wrap.
Then Loach puts a liner-sock and a wick-sock over the tape, then slides on the little inflatable AirCast deal and pumps it to the
right pressure, checking with a little gauge, and Velcros it just tight enough for support plus max-flexion. Hal was on the bench
with his hands on Loach's shoulders through the whole little routine. Everybody's had his hands on Loach's shoulders at one time
or another. Hal's shave and wrap take four minutes. Schacht's knee and Fran Unwin's hamstring thing each take over ten. Wayne's
quarter looked like it was dancing on his knuckles. Because of the towel over his head all you could see was a very thin oval
section of his face, like an almond on its end. Wayne got to have a small disk-player in his locker, and Joni Mitchell was playing,
which nobody ever minded because he kept it very low. Stice was blowing a purple bubble. Freer was trying to touch his toes.
Traub and Whale, also on the wrap-bench, later said Hal was being weird. Like they said asking Loach if the pre-match locker
room ever gave him a weird feeling, occluded, electric, as if all this had been done and said so many times before it made you feel
it was recorded, they all in here existed basically as Fourier Transforms of postures and little routines, locked down and stored and
call-uppable for rebroadcast at specified times. What Traub heard as Fourier Transforms Whale heard as Furrier Transforms. But
also, as a consequence, erasable, Hal had said. By whom? Hal before a match usually had a wide-eyed ingen-uish anxiety of
someone who'd never been in a situation even remotely like this before. His face today had assumed various expressions ranging
from distended hilarity to scrunched grimace, expressions that seemed unconnected to anything that was going on. The word was
that Tavis and Schtitt had chartered three buses to take the squads to an indoor venue Mrs. Inc had had alumnus Corbett Th-Thorp
call in mammoth favors to arrange -- several mostly unused courts somewhere in the deep-brain tissue of the M.I.T. Student
Union -- and that the whole gala would be moved over to the Student Union, and that the Quebec team and most of the guests
were being contacted by cellular about the cancellation of the previous cancellation and the change in venue, and that those guests
who didn't hear about the change would ride in the buses with the players and staff, some of them in formal- and evening-wear,
probably, the guests. Traub also says he also heard Hal use the word moribund, but Whale couldn't confirm. Schacht entered a
stall and drove the latch home with a certain purposeful sound that produced that momentary gunslinger-enters-saloon-type hush
throughout the locker room. Nobody in the vicinity could say they heard Barry Loach respond one way or another to any of the
strange moody things Hal was saying as Loach locked down the ankle for high-level play. Wa-genknecht apparently really did
fart.
      The consensus among E.T.A.s is that Head Trainer Barry Loach resembles a wingless fly--blunt and scuttly, etc. One E.T.A.
tradition consists of Big Buddies recounting to new or very young Little Buddies the saga of Loach and how he ended up as an
elite Head Trainer even though he doesn't have an official degree in Training or whatever from Boston College, which is where
he'd gone to school. In outline form, the saga goes that Loach grew up as the youngest child of an enormous Catholic family, the
parents of which were staunch Catholics of the old school of extremely staunch Catholicism, and that Mrs. Loach (as in the
mom)'s life's most fervent wish was that one of her countless children would enter the R.C. clergy, but that the eldest Loach boy
had done a two-year U.S.N. bit and had gotten de-mapped early on in the Brazilian O.N.A.N./U.N. joint action of Y.T.M.P.; and
that within weeks of the wake the next oldest Loach boy had died of ciquatoxic food-poisoning eating tainted blackfin grouper;
and the next oldest Loach, Therese, through a series of adolescent misadventures had ended up in Atlantic City NJ as one of the
women in sequined leotards and high heels who carries a large posterboard card with the Round # on it around the ring between
rounds of professional fights, so that hopes for Therese becoming a Carmelite dimmed considerably; and on down the line, one
Loach falling helplessly in love and marrying right out of high school, another burning only to play the cymbals with a first-rate
philharmonic (now crashing away with the Houston P.O.). And so on, until there was just one other Loach child and then Barry
Loach, who was the youngest and also totally under Mrs. L.'s thumb, emotionally; and that young Barry had breathed a huge sigh
of relief when his older brother -- always a pious and contemplative and big-hearted kid, brimming over with abstract love and an
innate faith in the indwelling goodness of all men's souls -- began to show evidence of a true spiritual calling to a life of service
in the R.C. clergy, and ultimately entered Jesuit seminary, removing an enormous weight from his younger brother's psyche
because young Barry -- ever since he first slapped a Band-Aid on an X-Men figure -- felt his true calling was not to the
priesthood but to the liniment-and-adhesive ministry of professional athletic training. Who, finally, can say the whys and whences
of each man's true vocation? And then so Barry was a Training major or whatever at B.C., and by all accounts proceeding
satisfactorily toward a degree, when his older brother, quite far along toward getting ordained or frocked or whatever as a licensed
Jesuit, suffered at age twenty-five a sudden and dire spiritual decline in which his basic faith in the innate indwelling goodness of
men like spontaneously combusted and disappeared -- and for no apparent or dramatic reason; it just seemed as if the brother had
suddenly contracted a black misanthropic spiritual outlook the way some twenty-five-year-old men contract Sanger-Brown's
ataxia or M.S., a kind of degenerative Lou Gehrig's Disease of the spirit -- and his interest in serving man and God-in-man and
nurturing the indwelling Christ in people through Jesuitical pursuits underwent an understandable nosedive, and he began to do
nothing but sit in his dormitory room at St. John's Seminary -- right near Enfield Tennis Academy, coincidentally, on Foster
Street in Brighton off Comm. Ave., right by the Archdiocese H.Q. or whatever -- sitting there trying to pitch playing-cards into a
wastebasket in the middle of the floor, not going to classes or vespers or reading his Hours, and talking frankly about giving up
the vocation altogether, which all had Mrs. Loach just about prostrate with disappointment, and had young Barry suddenly re-
weighted with dread and anxiety, because if his brother bailed out of the clergy it would be nearly irresistibly incumbent on Barry,
the very last Loach, to give up his true vocation of splints and flexion and enter seminary himself, to keep his staunch and beloved
Mom from dying of disappointment. And so a series of personal interviews with the spiritually necrotic brother took place, Barry
having to station himself on the other side of the playing-cards' wastebasket so as even to get the older brother's attention, trying to
talk the brother down from the misanthropic spiritual ledge he was on. The spiritually ill brother was fairly cynical about Barry
Loach's reasons for trying to talk him down, seeing as how both men knew that Barry's own career-dreams were on the line here
as well; though the brother smiled sardonically and said he'd come to expect little better than self-interested #l-looking-out from
human beings anyway, since his prac-ticum work out among the human flocks in some of Boston's nastier downtown venues --
the impossibility of conditions-changing, the ingratitude of the low-life homeless addicted and mentally ill flocks he served, and
the utter lack of compassion and basic help from the citizenry at large in all Jesuitical endeavors -- had killed whatever spark of
inspired faith he'd had in the higher possibilities and perfectibility of man; so he opined what should he expect but that his own
little brother, no less than the coldest commuter passing the outstretched hands of the homeless and needy at Park Street Station,
should be all-too-humanly concerned with nothing but the care and feeding of Numero Uno. Since a basic absence of empathy and
compassion and taking-the-risk-to-reach-out seemed to him now an ineluctable part of the human character. Barry Loach was
understandably way out his depth on the theological turf of like Apologia and the redeemability of man -- though he was able to
relieve a slight hitch in the brother's toss that was stressing his card-throwing arm's flexor carpi ulnaris muscle and so to up the
brother's card-in-wastebasket percentage significantly -- but he was not only desperate to preserve his mother's dream and his
own indirectly athletic ambitions at the same time, he was actually rather a spiritually upbeat guy who just didn't buy the brother's
sudden despair at the apparent absence of compassion and warmth in God's supposed self-mimetic and divine creation, and he
managed to engage the brother in some rather heated and high-level debates on spirituality and the soul's potential, not that much
unlike Alyosha and Ivan's conversations in the good old Brothers K., though probably not nearly as erudite and literary, and
nothing from the older brother even approaching the carcinogenic acerbity of Ivan's Grand Inquisitor scenario.
      In outline, it eventually boiled down to this: a desperate Barry Loach -- with Mrs. L. now on 25 mg. of daily Ativan <footnote>384</footnote>
and just about camped out in front of the candle-lighting apse of the Loach's parish church -- Loach challenges his brother to let
him prove somehow -- risking his own time, Barry's, and maybe safety somehow -- that the basic human character wasn't as
unempathetic and necrotic as the brother's present depressed condition was leading him to think. After a few suggestions and
rejections of bets too way-out even for Barry Loach's desperation, the brothers finally settle on a, like, experimental challenge.
The spiritually despondent brother basically challenges Barry Loach to not shower or change clothes for a while and make himself
look homeless and disreputable and louse-ridden and clearly in need of basic human charity, and to stand out in front of the Park
Street T-station on the edge of the Boston Common, right alongside the rest of the downtown community's lumpen dregs, who all
usually stood there outside the T-station stemming change, and for Barry Loach to hold out his unclean hand and instead of
stemming change simply ask passersby to touch him. Just to touch him. Viz. extend some basic human warmth and contact. And
this Barry does. And does. Days go by. His own spiritually upbeat constitution starts taking blows to the solar plexus. It's not clear
whether the verminousness of his appearance had that much to do with it; it just turned out that standing there outside the station
doors and holding out his hand and asking people to touch him ensured that just about the last thing any passerby in his right mind
would want to do was touch him. It's possible that the respectable citizenry with their bookbags and cellulars and dogs with little
red sweater-vests thought that sticking one's hand way out and crying 'Touch me, just touch me, please' was some kind of new
stem-type argot for 'Lay some change on me,' because Barry Loach found himself hauling in a rather impressive daily total of $ --
significantly more than he was earning at his work-study job wrapping ankles and sterilizing dental prostheses for Boston College
lacrosse players. Citizens found his pitch apparently just touching enough to give him $; but B. Loach's brother -- who often
stood there in collar less mufti up against the plastic jamb of the T-sta-tion's exit, slouched and smirking and idly shuffling a deck
of cards in his hands -- was always quick to point out the spastic delicacy with which the patrons dropped change or $ into Barry
Loach's hand, these kind of bullwhip-motions or jagged in-and-outs like they were trying to get something hot off a burner, never
touching him, and they rarely broke stride or even made eye-contact as they tossed alms B.L.'s way, much less ever getting their
hand anywhere close to contact with B.L.'s disreputable hand. The brother not unreasonably nixed the accidental contact of one
commuter who'd stumbled as he tried to toss a quarter and then let Barry break his fall, not to mention the bipolarly ill bag-lady
who got Barry Loach in a headlock and tried to bite his ear off near the end of the third week of the Challenge. Barry L. refused to
concede defeat and misanthropy, and the Challenge dragged on week after week, and the older brother got bored eventually and
stopped coming and went back to his room and waited for the St. John's Seminary administration to give him his walking papers,
and Barry Loach had to take Incompletes in the semester's Training courses, and got canned from his work-study job for not
showing up, and he went through weeks and then months of personal spiritual crisis as passerby after passerby interpreted his
appeal for contact as a request for cash and substituted abstract loose change for genuine fleshly contact; and some of the T-
station's other disreputable stem-artists became intrigued by Barry's pitch -- to say nothing of his net receipts -- and started
themselves to take up the cry of 'Touch me, please, please, someone!,' which of course further compromised Barry Loach's
chances of getting some citizen to interpret his request literally and lay hands on him in a compassionate and human way; and
Loach's own soul began to sprout little fungal patches of necrotic rot, and his upbeat view of the so-called normal and respectable
human race began to undergo dark revision; and when the other scuzzy and shunned stem-artists of the downtown district treated
him as a compadre and spoke to him in a colle-gial way and offered him warming drinks from brown-bagged bottles he felt too
disillusioned and coldly alone to be able to refuse, and thus started to fall in with the absolute silt at the very bottom of the metro
Boston socio-economic duck-pond. And then what happened with the spiritually infirm older brother and whither he fared and
what happened with his vocation never gets resolved in the E.T.A. Loach-story, because now the focus becomes all Loach and
how he was close to forgetting -- after all these months of revulsion from citizens and his getting any kind of nurturing or
empathic treatment only from homeless and addicted stem-artists -- what a shower or washing machine or a ligamental
manipulation even were, much less career-ambitions or a basically upbeat view of indwelling human goodness, and in fact Barry
Loach was dangerously close to disappearing forever into the fringes and dregs of metro Boston street life and spending his whole
adult life homeless and louse-ridden and stemming in the Boston Common and drinking out of brown paper bags, when along
toward the end of the ninth month of the Challenge, his appeal -- and actually also the appeals of the other dozen or so cynical
stem-artists right alongside Loach, all begging for one touch of a human hand and holding their hands out -- when all these
appeals were taken literally and responded to with a warm handshake -- which only the more severely intoxicated stemmers
didn't recoil from the profferer of, plus Loach -- by E.T.A.'s own Mario Incan-denza, who'd been sent dashing out from the Back
Bay co-op where his father was filming something that involved actors dressed up as God and the Devil playing poker with Tarot
cards for the soul of Cosgrove Watt, using subway tokens as the ante, and Mario'd been sent dashing out to get another roll of
tokens from the nearest station, which because of a dumpster-fire near the entrance to the Arlington St. station turned out to be
Park Street, and Mario, being alone and only fourteen and largely clueless about anti-stem defensive strategies outside T-stations,
had had no one worldly or adult along with him there to explain to him why the request of men with outstretched hands for a
simple handshake or High Five shouldn't automatically be honored and granted, and Mario had extended his clawlike hand and
touched and heartily shaken Loach's own fuliginous hand, which led through a convoluted but kind of heartwarming and faith-
reaffirming series of circumstances to B. Loach, even w/o an official B.A., being given an Asst. Trainer's job at E.T.A., a job he
was promoted from just months later when the then-Head Trainer suffered the terrible accident that resulted in all locks being
taken off E.T.A. saunas' doors and the saunas' maximum temperature being hard-wired down to no more than 50°C.