

     En route, R. Lenz's mouth writhes and he scratches at the little rhy-nophemic rash and sniffs terribly and complains of terrible
late-autumn leaf-mold allergies, forgetting that Bruce Green knows all too well what coke-hydrolysis's symptoms are from having
done so many lines himself, back when life with M. Bonk was one big party.
     Lenz details how the vegetarian new Joel girl's veil is because of this condition people get where she's got only one eye that's
right in the middle of her forehead, from birth, like a seahorse, and asks Green not even to think of asking how he knows this fact.
     While Green acts as lookout while Lenz relieves himself against a Market St. dumpster, Lenz swears Green to secrecy about
how poor old scarred-up diseased Charlotte Treat had sworn him to secrecy about her secret dream in sobriety was to someday get
her G.E.D. and become a dental hygienist specializing in educating youngsters pathologically frightened of dental anesthesia,
because her dream was to help youngsters, and but how she feared her Virus has placed her secret dream forever out of
reach. <endnote>239</endnote>
     All the way up the Spur's Harvard St. toward Union Square, in a barely NW vector, Lenz consumes several minutes and less
than twenty breaths sharing with Green some painful Family-Of-Origin Issues about how Lenz's mother Mrs. Lenz, a thrice-
divorcée and Data Processor, was so unspeakably obese she had to make her own mumus out of brocade drapes and cotton
tablecloths and never once did come to Parents' Day at Bishop Anthony McDiardama Elementary School in Fall River MA
because of the parents had to sit in the youngsters' little liftable-desktop desks during the Parents' Day presentations and skits, and
the one time Mrs. L. hove her way down to B.A.M.E.S. for Parents' Day and tried to seat herself at little Randall L.'s desk between
Mrs. Lamb and Mrs. Leroux she broke the desk into kindling and needed four stocky cranberry-farmer dads and a textbook-dolly
to arise back up from the classroom floor, and never went back, fabricating thin excuses of busyness with Data Processing and
basic disinterest in Randy L.'s schoolwork. Lenz shares how then in adolescence (his), his mother died because one day she was
riding a Greyhound bus from Fall River MA north to Quincy MA to visit her son in a Commonwealth Youth Corrections facility
Lenz was doing research for a possible screenplay in, and during the voyage on the bus she had to go potty, and she was in the
bus's tiny potty in the rear of the bus going about her private business of going potty, as she later testified, and even though it was
the height of winter she had the little window of the potty wide open, for reasons Lenz predicts Green doesn't want to hear about,
on the northbound bus, and how this was one of the last years of Unsubsidized ordinational year-dating, and the final fiscal year
that actual maintenance-work had ever been done on the infernous six-lane commuter-ravaged Commonwealth Route 24 from Fall
River to Boston's South Shore by the pre-O.N.A.N.ite Governor Claprood's Commonwealth Highway Authority, and the
Greyhound bus encountered a poorly marked UNDER CONSTRUCTION area where 24 was all stripped down to the dimpled-
iron sheeting below and was tooth-rattlingly striated and chuckholed and torn up and just in general basically a mess, and the
poorly marked and unflag-manned debris plus the excessive speed of the northbound bus made it jounce godawfully, the bus, and
swerve violently to and forth, fighting to maintain control of what there was of the road, and passengers were hurled violently
from their seats while, meanwhile, back in the closet-sized rear potty, Mrs. Lenz, right in the process of going potty, was hurled
from the toilet by the first swerve and proceeded to do some high-velocity and human-waste-flinging pinballing back and forth
against the potty's plastic walls; and when the bus finally regained total control and resumed course Mrs. Lenz had, freakishly
enough, ended up her human pinballing with her bare and unspeakably huge backside wedged tight in the open window of the
potty, so forcefully ensconced into the recesstacle that she was unable to extricate, and the bus continued on its northward sojourn
the rest of the way up 24 with Mrs. Lenz's bare backside protruding from the ensconcing window, prompting car horns and
derisive oratory from other vehicles; and Mrs. Lenz's plaintiff shouts for Help were unavailed by the passengers that were arising
back up off the floor and rubbing their sore noggins and hearing Mrs. Lenz's mortified screams from behind the potty's locked
reinforced plastic door, but were unable to excretate her because the potty's door locked from the interior by sliding across a
deadbolt that made the door's outside say occupied/occupado/occupé, and the door was locked, and Mrs. Lenz was wedged
beyond the reach of arm-length and couldn't reach the deadbolt no matter how plaintiffly she reached out her mammoth fat-
wattled arm; and, like fully 88% of all clinically obese Americans, Mrs. Lenz was diagnosed clinically claustrophobic and took
prescription medication for anxiety and ensconcement-phobias, and she ended up successfully filing a Seven-Figure suit against
Greyhound Lines and the almost-defunct Commonwealth Highway Authority for psychiatric trauma, public mortification, and
second-degree frostbite, and received such a morbidly obese settlement from the Dukakis-appointed 18th-Circus Civil Court that
when the check arrived, in an extra-long-size envelope to accommodate all the zeroes, Mrs. L. lost all will to Data Process or cook
or clean, or nurture, or finally even move, simply reclining in a custom-designed 1.5-meter-wide re-cliner watching InterLace
Gothic Romances and consuming mammoth volumes of high-lipid pastry brought on gold trays by a pastry chef she'd had put at
her individual 24-hour disposal and outfitted with a cellular beeper, until four months after the huge settlement she ruptured and
died, her mouth so crammed with peach cobbler the paramedics were hapless to administer C.P.R., which Lenz says he knows, by
the way -- C.P.R.
     By the time they hit the Spur, their northwest tacking has wheeled broadly right to become more truly north. Their route down
here is a Mon-drian of alleys narrowed to near-defiles from all the dumpsters. Lenz goes first, blaze-trailing. Lenz gives these sort
of smoky looks to every female that passes within eyeshot. Their vector is now mostly N/NW. They stroll through the rich smell
of dryer-exhaust from the backside of a laundromat off Dustin and Comm. The city of metro Boston MA at night. The ding and
trundle of the B and C Greenie trains heading up Comm. Ave.'s hill, west. Street-drunks sitting with their backs to sooted walls,
seeming to study their laps, even the mist of their breath discolored. The complex hiss of bus-brakes. The jagged shadows
distending with headlights' passage. Latin music drifting through the Spur's Projects, twined around some 5/4 'shine stuff from a
boombox over off Feeny Park, and in between these a haunting plasm of Hawaiian-type music that sounds at once top-volume and
far far away. The zithery drifting Polynesian strains make Bruce Green's face spread in a flat mask of psychic pain he doesn't even
feel is there, and then the music's gone. Lenz asks Green what it's like to work with ice all day at Leisure Time Ice and then
himself theorizes on what it must be like, he'll bet, with your crushed ice and ice cubes in pale-blue plastic bags with a staple for a
Twistie and dry ice in wood tubs pouring out white smoke and then your huge blocks of industrial ice packed in fragrant sawdust,
the huge blocks of man-sized ice with flaws way inside like trapped white faces, white flames of internal cracks. Your picks and
hatchets and really big tongs, red knuckles and rimed windows and thin bitter freezer-smell with runny-nosed Poles in plaid coats
and kalpacs, your older ones with a chronic cant to one side from all the time lugging ice.
     They crunch through iridescent chunks of what Lenz I.D.s as a busted windshield. Lenz shares feelings on how between three
ex-husbands and feral attorneys and a pastry-chef that used pastry-dependence to warp and twist her into distorting a testament
toward the chef and Lenz's being through red-tape still in Quincy's Y.C.A. hold and in a weak litigational vantage, the ruptured
Mrs. L.'s will had left him out in the cold to self-fend by his urban wits while ex-husbands and patissiers lay on Riviera beach-
furniture fanning themselves with high-denomination currency, about all which Lenz says he grapples with the Issues of on a like
daily basis; leaving Green a gap to make understanding sounds. Green's jacket creaks as he breathes. The windshield-glass is in an
alley whose fire escapes are hung with what look like wet frozen tarps. The alley's tight-packed dumpsters and knobless steel
doors and the dull black of total grime. The blunt snout of a bus protrudes into the frame of the alley's end, idling.
     Dumpsters' garbage doesn't have just one smell, depending. The urban lume makes the urban night only semidark, as in
licoricey, a luminescence just under the skin of the dark, and swelling. Green keeps them updated re time. Lenz has begun to refer
to Green as 'brother.' Lenz says he has to piss like a racehorse. He says the nice thing about the urban city is that it's one big
commode. The way Lenz pronounces brother involves one r. Green moves up to stand in the mouth of the alley, facing out, giving
Lenz a little privacy several dumpsters behind. Green stands there in the start of the alley's shadow, in the bus's warm backwash,
his elbows out and hands in the jacket's little pockets, looking out. It's unclear whether Green knows Lenz is under the influence
of Bing. All he feels is a moment of deep wrenching loss, of wishing getting high was still pleasurable for him so he could get
high. This feeling comes and goes all day every day, still. Green takes a gasper from behind his ear and lights it and puts a fresh
one on-deck behind the ear. Union Square, Allston: Kiss me where it smells, she said, so I took her to Allston, unquote. Union
Square's lights throb. Whenever somebody stops blowing their horn somebody else starts blowing their horn. There's three
Chinese women waiting at the light across the street from the guy with the lobsters. Each of them's got a shopping bag. An old
VW Bug like Doony Glynn's VW Bug idling mufflerless outside Riley's Roast Beef, except Doony's Bug's engine is exposed
where the back hood got removed to expose the Bug's guts. It's like impossible to ever spot a Chinese woman on a Boston street
that's under sixty or over 1.5 m. or not carrying a shopping bag, except never more than one bag. If you close your eyes on a busy
urban sidewalk the sound of everybody's different footwear's footsteps all put together sounds like something getting chewed by
something huge and tireless and patient. The searing facts of the case of Bruce Green's natural parents' deaths when he was a
toddler are so deeply repressed inside Green that whole strata and substrata of silence and mute dumb animal suffering will have
to be strip-mined up and dealt with a Day at a Time in sobriety for Green even to remember how, on his fifth Xmas Eve, in
Waltham MA, his Pop had taken the hydrant-sized little Brucie Green aside and given him, to give his beloved Mama for Xmas, a
gaily Gauguin-colored can of Polynesian Mauna Loa-brand <endnote>240</endnote> macadamia nuts, said cylindrical can of nuts then toted
upstairs by the child and painstakingly wrapped in so much foil-sheen paper that the final wrapped present looked like an
oversized dachshund that had required first bludgeoning and then restraint at both ends with two rolls each of Scotch tape and
garish fuchsia ribbon to be subdued and wrapped and placed under the gaily lit pine, and even then the package seemed mushily to
struggle as the substrata of paper shifted and settled.
     Bruce Green's Pop Mr. Green had at one time been one of New England's most influential aerobics instructors -- even
costarring once or twice, in the decade before digital dissemination, on the widely rented Buns of Steel aerobics home-video series
-- and had been in high demand and very influential until, to his horror, in his late twenties, the absolute prime of an aerobics
instructor's working life, either one of Mr. Green's legs began spontaneously to grow or the other leg began spontaneously to
retract, because within weeks one leg was all of a sudden nearly six inches longer than the other -- Bruce Green's one unrepressed
visual memory of the man is of a man who progressively and perilously leaned as he hobbled from specialist to specialist -- and
he had to get outfitted with a specialized orthopedic boot, black as a cauldron, that seemed to be 90% sole and resembled an
asphalt-spreader's clunky boot, and weighed several pounds, and looked absurd with Spandex leggings; and the long and short of
it was that Brucie Green's Pop was aerobically washed up by the leg and boot, and had to career-change, and went bitterly to work
for a Waltham novelty or notions concern, something with 'N in the name, Acme Novelties 'N Notions or some such, where Mr.
Green designed sort of sadistic practical-joke supplies, specializing in the Jolly Jolt Hand Buzzer and Blammo Cigar product-
lines, with a sideline in entomological icecubes and artificial dandruff, etc. Demoralizing, sedentary, character-twisting work, is
what an older child would have been able to understand, peering from his nightlit doorway at an unshaven man who clunkily
paced away the wee hours on a nightly basis down in the living room, his gait like a bosun's in heavy seas, occasionally breaking
into a tiny tentative gluteal-thruster squat-and-kick, almost falling, muttering bitterly, carrying a Falstaff tallboy.
     Something touching about a gift that a toddler's so awfully overwrapped makes a sickly-pale and neurasthenic but doting Mrs.
Green, Bruce's beloved Mama, choose the mugged-dachshund-foíl-sheen-cylinder present first, of course, to open, on Xmas
morning, as they sit before the crackling fireplace in different chairs by different windows with views of Waltham sleet, with
bowls of Xmas snacks and Acme-'N-logoed mugs of cocoa and hazelnut decaf and watch each other taking turns opening gifts.
Brucie's little face aglow in the firelight as the unwrapping of the nuts proceeds through layer and stratum, Mrs. Green a couple
times having to use her teeth on the rinds of tape. Finally the last layer is off and the gay-colored can in view. Mauna Loa: Mrs.
Green's favorite and most decadent special-treat food. World's highest-calorie food except for like pure suet. Nuts so yummy they
should be spelled S-I-N, she says. Brucie excitedly bobbing in his chair, spilling cocoa and Gummi Bears, a loving toddler, more
excited about his gift's receipt than what he's going to get himself. His mother's clasped hands before her sunken bosom. Sighs of
delight and protest. And an EZ-Open Lid, on the can.
     Which the contents of the macadamia-labelled can is really a coiled cloth snake with an ejaculatory spring. The snake sprongs
out as Mrs. G. screams, a hand to her throat. Mr. Green howls with bitterly professional practical-gag mirth and clunks over and
slaps little Bruce on the back so hard that Brucie expels a lime Gummi Bear he'd been eating -- this too a visual memory,
contextless and creepy -- which arcs across the living room and lands in the fireplace's fire with a little green siss of flame. The
cloth snake's arc has terminated at the imitation-crystal chandelier overhead, where the snake gets caught and hangs with
quivering spring as the chandelier swings and tinkles and Mr. Green's thigh-slapping laughter takes a while to run down even as
Brucie's Mama's hand at her delicate throat becomes claw-shaped and she claws at her throat and gurgles and slumps over to
starboard with a fatal cardiac, her cyanotic mouth still open in surprise. For the first couple minutes Mr. Green thinks she's putting
them on, and he keeps rating her performance on an Acme interdepartmental 1-8 Gag Scale until he finally gets pissed off and
starts saying she's drawing the gag out too long, that she's going to scare their little Brucie who's sitting there under the swinging
crystal, wide-eyed and silent.
     And Bruce Green uttered not another out-loud word until his last year of grade school, living by then in Winchester with his
late mother's sister, a decent but Dustbowly-looking Seventh-Day Adventist who never once pressed Brucie to speak, probably out
of sympathy, probably sympathizing with the searing pain the opaque-eyed child must have felt over not only giving his Mama a
lethal Xmas present but over then having to watch his widowed asymetrical Pop cave psycho-spiritually in after the wake, watch-
ing Mr. Green pace-and-clunk around the living room all night every night after work and an undermicrowaved supper-for-two, in
his Frankensteinian boot, clunking around in circles, scratching slowly at his face and arms until he looked less scourged than
brambled, and in loosely associated mutters cursing God and himself and Acme Nuts 'N Serpents or whatever, and leaving the
fatal snake up hanging from the fake-crystal fixture and the fatal Xmas tree up in its little red metal stand until all the strings of
lights went out and the strings of popcorn got dark and hard and the stand's bowl of water evaporated so the tree's needles died and
fell brownly off onto the rest of the still-unopened Xmas presents clustered below, one of which was a package of Nebraska corn-
fed steaks whose cherub-motif wrapping was beginning ominously to swell...; and then finally the even more searing childhood
pain of the public arrest and media-scandal and Sanity Hearing and Midwest trial as it was established after the fact that the post-
Xmas Mr. Green -- whose one encouraging sign of holding some tattered remnants of himself together after the funeral had been
the fact that he still went faithfully every day to work at Acme Inc. -- had gone in and packed a totally random case of the
company's outgoing Blammo Cigars with vengefully lethal tetryl-based high explosives, and a V.F.W., three Rotarians, and 24
Shriners had been grotesquely decapitated across Southeastern Ohio before the federal A.T.F. traced the grisly forensic fragments
back to B. Green Sr.'s Blammo lab, in Waltham; and then the extradition and horribly complex Sanity Hearing and trial and
controversial sentencing; and then the appeals and deathwatch and Lethal Injection, Bruce Green's aunt handing out poorly
reproduced W. Miller tracts to the crowds outside the Ohio prison as the clock ticked down to Injection, little Bruce in tow, blank-
faced and watching, the crowd of media and anti-Capital activists and Defarge-like picnickers milling and roiling, many T-shirts
for sale, and the red-faced men in sportcoats and fezzes, oh their rage-twisted faces the same red as their fezzes as the men
careened this way and that in their little cars, formations of motorized Shriners buzzing the gates of the O.D.C.-Maximum facility
and shouting Burn Baby Burn or the more timely Get Lethally Injected Baby Get Lethally Injected, Bruce Green's aunt with her
center-parted hair visibly graying under the pillbox hat and face obscured for three Ohio months behind the black mesh veil that
fluttered from the pillbox hat, clutching little Bruce's head to her underwired bosom day after day until his blank face was
smooshed in on one side.... Green's guilt, pain, fear and self-loathing have over years of unprescribed medication been compressed
to the igneous point where he now knows only that he compulsively avoids any product or service with 'N in its name, always
checks a palm before a handshake, will go blocks out of his way to avoid any parade involving fezzes in little cars, and has this
silent, substratified fascination/horror ge-stalt about all things even remotely Polynesian. It's probably the distant and attenuated
luau-music echoing erratically back and forth through angled blocks of Allston cement that causes Bruce Green to wander as if
mesmerized out of Union Square and all the way up Comm. Ave. into Brighton and up to like the corner of Comm. Ave. and
Brainerd Road, the home of The Unexamined Life nightclub with its tilted flickering bottle of blue neon over the entrance, before
he realizes that Lenz is no longer beside him asking the time, that Lenz hadn't followed him up the hill even though Green had
stood there outside the Union Square alley way longer than anybody could have needed to take a legitimate whiz.
     He and Lenz have become separated, he realizes. Now way southwest of Union on Comm., Green looks around at traffic and
T-tracks and bar-patrons and T.U.L.'s huge bottle's low-neon flutter. He wonders whether he's somehow blown Lenz off or
whether Lenz's blown him off, and that's all he wonders, that's the total complexity the speculation assumes, that's his thought for
the minute. It's like the whole nut-can-and-cigar traumas drained into some psychic sump at puberty, sank and left only an oily
slick that catches the light in distorted ways. The warbly Polynesian music's way clearer up here. He starts up the steep hill on
Brainerd Rd., which terminates at the Enfield line. Maybe Lenz can't move straightforwardly south at all past a certain time. The
acclivity is not kind to asphalt-spreader's boots. After the initial crazed-gerbil-in-brain phase of early Withdrawal and detox, Bruce
Green has now returned to his normal psychorepressed cerebral state where he has about one fully developed thought every sixty
seconds, and then just one at a time, a thought, each materializing already fully developed and sitting there and then melting back
away like a languid liquid-crystal display. His Ennet House counselor, the extremely tough-loving Calvin T., complains that
listening to Green is like listening to a faucet with a very slow drip. His rap is that Green seems not serene or detached but totally
shut down, disassociated, and Calvin T. tries weekly to draw Green out by pissing him off. Green's next full thought is the
realization that even though the hideous Hawaiian music had sounded like it was drifting up northward from down at the Allston
Spur, it's somewhat louder now the farther west he moves toward Enfield's Cambridge St. dogleg and St. Elizabeth's Hospital.
Brainerd between Commonwealth and Cambridge St. is a sine wave of lung-busting hills through neighborhoods Tiny Ewell had
described as Depressed Residential, unending rows of crammed-together triple-decker houses with those tiny sad architectural
differences that seem to highlight the essential sameness, with sagging porches and psoriatic paint-jobs or aluminum siding gone
carbuncular from violent temperature-swings, yard-litter and dishes and patchy grass and fenced pets and children's toys lying
around in discarded attitudes and eclectic food-smells and wildly different-patterned curtains or blinds in a house's different
windows due to these old houses are carved up inside into apartments for like alienated B.U. students or Canadian and Concavity-
displaced families or even more alienated B.C. students, or probably it looks like the bulk of the lease-holders are Green-and-
Bonkesque younger blue-collar hard-partying types that have posters of the Fiends In Human Shape or Choosy Mothers or Snout
or the Bioavaílable Five <endnote>241</endnote> in the bathroom and black lights in the bedroom and oil-change stains in the driveway and that
throw their supper dishes into the yard and buy new dishes at Caldor instead of washing their dishes and that still, in their
twenties, ingest Substances nightly and use party as a verb and put their sound-systems' speakers in their apartments' windows
facing out and crank the volume out of sheer high-spirit obnoxiousness because they still have their girlfriends to pound beers
with and do shotguns of dope into the mouth of and do lines of Bing off various parts of the naked body of, and still find pounding
beers and doing bongs and lines fun and get to have fun on a nightly after-work basis, cranking the tunes out into the
neighborhood air. The street's bare trees are densely limbed, they're a certain type of tree, they look like inverted brooms in the
residential dark, Green doesn't know his tree-names. The Hawaiian music is what's pulled him southwest, it emerges: it's
originating from someplace in this very neighborhood somewhere around W. Brainerd, and Green moves upriver toward what
sounds like the source of the sound with a blankly horrified fascination. Most of the yards are fenced in stainless-steel chain-link
fencing, and occasional yard-dogs whine or more commonly bark and snarl and leap territorially at Green from behind their
fences, the fences shivering from the impact and the chain-link stuff dented outward from previous impacts from previous
passersby. The thought that he isn't scared of dogs develops and recedes in Green's midbrain. His jacket creaks with every step.
The temperature is steadily dropping. The fenced front yards are the toy-and-beer-can-strewn type where the brown grass grows in
uneven tufts and the leaves haven't been raked and are piled in wind-blown lines of force along the base of the fence and unpruned
hedges and overfull wastebaskets and untwisted trash-bags are on the sagging porch because nobody's gotten around to taking
them down to the E.W.D. dumpster at the corner and garbage from the overfull receptacles blows out into the yard and mixes with
the leaves along the fences' base and some gets out into the street and is never picked up and eventually becomes part of the
composition of the street. A nonpeanut M&M box is like intaglioed into the concrete of the sidewalk under Green, so bleached by
the elements it's turned bone-white and is only barely identifiable as a nonpeanut M&M box, for instance. And, looking up from
identifying the M&M box's make, Green now espies Randy Lenz. Green has happened upon Lenz, way up here on Brainerd, now
strolling briskly alone up ahead of Green, not close but visible under a functioning streetlight about a block farther uphill on
Brainerd. There's some disincentive to call out. The incline on this block isn't bad. It's cold enough now so his breath looks the
same whether he's smoking or not. The tall curved streetlamps here look to Green just like the weaponish part of the Martian
vessels that fired fatal rays in their conquest of the planet in an ancient cartridge Tommy Doocy'd never tired of that he labelled
the case 'War of the Welles.' The Hawaiian music dominates the aural landscape by this point, now, coming from someplace up
near where he sees the back of Lenz's coat. Someone has put Polynesian-music speakers in their window, pretty clearly. Creepy
slack-key steel guitar balloons across the dim street, booms off the sagging facades opposite, it's Don Ho and the Sol Hoopi
Players, the grass-skirt-and-foamy-breakers sound that makes Green put his fingers in his ears while at the same time he moves
more urgently toward the Hawaiian-music source, a pink or aqua three-decker with a second-floor dormer and red-shingled roof
with a blue and white Quenucker flag on a pole protruding from a window in the dormer and serious JBL speakers facing outward
in the two windows on either side of the flag, with the screens off so you can see the woofers throbbing like brown bellies hula-
ing, bathing the 1700 block of W. Brainerd in dreadful ukuleles and hollow-log percussives. All the blunt fingers in his ears do is
add the squeak of Green's pulse and the underwater sound of his respiration to the music, though. Figures in plaid-flannel or else
floral Hawaiian shirts and those flower necklaces melt in and out of lit view behind and over the window-speakers with the oozing
quality of large-group chemical fun and dancing and social intercoursing. The lit windows make slender rectangles of light out
across the yard, which the yard is a sty. Something about Randy Lenz's movements up ahead, the high-kneed tiptoed skulk of a
vaudeville fiend up to no good at all, keeps Green from calling out to him even if he could have made himself heard over what to
him is a roar of blood and breath and Ho. Lenz moves through the one operative streetlight's cone across the sidewalk and over to
the stainless chain-link of the same Que-nucker house, holding something out to a Shetland-sized dog whose leash is attached to a
fluorescent-plastic clothesliney thing by a pulley, and can slide. It's cold and the air is thin and keen and his fingers are icy in his
ears, which ache with cold. Green watches, rapt on levels he doesn't know he has, drawn slowly forward, moving his head from
side to side to keep from losing Lenz in the fog of his breath, not calling out, but transfixed. Green and Mildred Bonk and the
other couple they'd shared a trailer with T. Doocy with had gone through a phase one time where they'd crash various collegiate
parties and mix with the upper-scale collegiates, and once in one February Green found himself at a Harvard U. dorm where they
were having a like Beach-Theme Party, with a dumptruck's worth of sand on the common-room floor and everybody with flower
necklaces and skin bronzed with cream or UV-booth-salon visits, all the towheaded guys in floral untucked shirts walking around
with lockjawed noblest oblige and drinking drinks with umbrellas in them or else wearing Speedos with no shirts and not one
fucking pimple anyplace on their back and pretending to surf on a surfboard somebody had nailed to a hump-shaped wave made
of blue and white papier mâché with a motor inside that made the fake wave sort of undulate, and all the girls in grass skirts
oozing around the room trying to hula in a shimmying way that showed their thighs' LipoVac scars through the shimmying grass
of their skirts, and Mildred Bonk had donned a grass skirt and bikini-top out of the pile by the keggers and even though almost
seven months pregnant had oozed and shimmied right into the mainstream of the swing of things, but Bruce Green had felt
awkward and out of place in his cheap leather jacket and haircut he'd dyed orange with gasoline in a blackout and the EAT THE
RICH patch he'd perversely let Mildred Bonk sew onto the groin of his police-pants, and then they'd finally got tired of the
'Hawaii Five-0' theme and started in with the Don Ho and Sol Hoopi CDs, and Green had gotten so uncomfortably fascinated and
repelled and paralyzed by the Polynesian tunes that he'd set up a cabana-chair right by the kegs and had sat there overworking the
pump on the kegs and downing one plastic cup after another of beer-foam until he got so blind drunk his sphincter had failed and
he'd not only pissed but also actually shit his pants, for only the second time ever, and the first public time ever, and was mortified
with complexly layered shame, and had to ease very gingerly into the nearest-by head and remove his pants and wipe himself off
like a fucking baby, having to shut one eye to make sure which him he saw was him, and then there'd been nothing to do with the
fouled police-pants but crack the bathroom door and reach a tattooed arm out with the pants and bury them in the living room's
sand like a housecat's litterbox, and then of course what was he supposed to put on if he ever wanted to leave that head or dorm
again, to get home, so he'd had to hold one eye shut and reach one arm out again and like strain to reach the pile of grass skirts and
bikini-tops and snatch a grass skirt, and put it on, and slip out of the Hawaiian dorm out a side door without letting anybody see
him, and then ride the Red Line and C-Greenie and then a bus all the way home in February in a cheap leather jacket and asphalt-
spreader's boots and a grass skirt, the grass of which rode up in the most horrifying way, and he'd spent the next three days not
leaving the trailer in the Spur, in a paralyzing depression of unknown etiology, lying on Tommy D.'s crusty-stained sofa and
drinking Southern Comfort straight out of the bottle and watching Doocy's snakes not move once in three days, in their tank, and
Mildred had given him two days of high-volume shit for first sulking antisocially by the keg and then screwing out and
abandoning her at seven months gone to a sandy room full of tanly anomic blondes who said catty things about her tattoos and
creepy boys who talked without moving their lower jaw and asked her things like where she 'summered' and kept offering her
advice on no-load funds and inviting her upstairs to check out their Dürer prints and saying they found overweight girls terribly
compelling in their defiance of culturo-ascetic norms, and Bruce Green lay there with a head full of Hoopi and unresolved pain
and didn't say a word or even have a fully developed thought for three days, and had hidden the grass skirt under the dustruffle of
the couch and later savagely torn it to shreds and sprinkled the clippings over Doocy's hydroponic-marijuana development in the
tub, for mulch. Lenz goes in and out of Green's focus several times within a dozen andante strides, still out in front of the
Canadian-refugee-type house that's drawn Green on, Lenz holding a little can of something up over one side of the fence's gate
and dribbling something onto the gate, holding something else that suddenly engages the dog's full attention. For some reason
Green thinks to check his watch. The pink or orange clothesline quivers as the leash's pulley runs along it as the dog comes up to
meet Lenz inside the gate he's slowly opened. The huge dog seems neither friendly nor unfriendly toward Lenz, but his attention is
engaged. The leash and pulley could never hold him if he decided Lenz was food. There's bitter-smelling material from his ear on
Green's finger, which he can't help but sniff. He's forgotten and left the other finger in his ear. He's now pretty close, standing in a
van's shadow just outside the pyramid of sodium light from the streetlight, like two houses down from the source of the grisly
sound, which all of a sudden is in the silence between cuts of Ho's early Don Ho: From Hawaii With All My Love, so that Green
can hear baritone Canadianese party-voices through the open windows and also the low lalations of baby-talk of some sort from
Lenz, 'Pooty ooty doggy woggy' and whatnot, presumably directed at the dog, who's coming over to Lenz in a sort of neutrally
cautious but attentive way. Green has no clue what kind of dog it is, but it's big. Green can remember not the sight but the two
very different sounds of the footfalls of his Pop the late Mr. Green pacing the Waltham living room, the crinkle of the paper bag
around the tallboy in his hand. It's well after 2245h. The dog's leash slides hissing to the end of the Day-Glo line and stops the dog
a couple paces from the inside of the gate, where Lenz is standing, inclined in the slight forward way of somebody who's talking
baby-talk to a dog. Green can see that Lenz has a slightly gnawed square of Don G.'s hard old meatloaf out in front of him,
holding it toward the straining dog. Lenz has the blankly intent look of a short-haired man with a Geiger counter. The hideously
compelling Ho starts again with the total abruptness that makes CDs so creepy. Green's got one finger in one ear, shifting around
slightly to keep Lenz's lampshadow from blocking the view. The music balloons and booms. The Nucks have turned it way up for
'My Lovely Launa-Una Luau Lady,' a song that's always made Green want to put his head through a window. Part of the in-
strumentals sounds like a harp on acid. The hollow-log percussives are like a heart in your extremest-type terror. Green fancies he
can see windows in the houses opposite vibrate from the horrific vibration. Green's having way more than one thought p.m. now,
the squeak of the gerbil-wheel starting to crank deep inside. The undulating shiver is a slack-steel guitar that fills little Brucie's
head with white sand and undulating tummies and heads that resemble New Year's subsidized parade balloons, huge soft shiny
baggy wrinkled grinning heads nodding and bobbing as they slowly inflate to the shape of a giant head, tilted forward, straining at
the ropes they're pulled by. Green hasn't watched a New Year's parade since the Year of the Tucks Medicated Pad's, which had
been obscene. Green's close enough to see that the Hawaiianized Nuck house is 412 W. Brainerd. Blue-collar-type cars and 4x4s
and vans are all up and down the street packed in in a somehow partyish attitude, as in parked in a hurry, some of them with
Canadian lettering on the plates. Fleur-de-lis stickers and slogans in Canadian on some of the windows also. An old Montego
cammed out into a slingshot dragster is parked square in front of 412 in a sort of menacing way with two wheels up on the curb
and a circle of flowers hung jauntily over the antenna, and the ellipses of dull fade in the paintjob of the hood that show the
engine's been bored out and the hood gets real hot, and Lenz has gotten down on one knee and breaks off some of the meatloaf
and tosses it underhand to the ground inside the leash's range. The dog goes over and lowers its head to the meat. The distinctive
sound of Gately's meatloaf getting chewed plus the ghastly music's zithery warbling roar. Lenz now rises and his movements in
the yard have a melting and wraithlike quality in the different shades of shadow. The lit window farthest from the limp flag has
solid swarthy guys in beards and loud shirts passing back and forth snapping their fingers under their elbows with flower-strewn
females in tow. Many of the heads are thrown back and attached to Molson bottles. Green's jacket creaks as he tries to breathe.
The snake had leapt from the can with a sound like: spronnnnng. His aunt at the Winchester breakfast nook, in dazzling winter
dawnlight, quietly doing a word-search puzzle. Two dormer windows are half-blocked by the throbbing rectangles of the JBLs.
Green's the type that can recognize a JBL speaker and Molson-green bottle from way far away.
     A developed thought coheres: Ho's voice has the quality of a type of: ointment.
     Any displaced and shaggy Nuck head in these windows chancing to look out into the yard now would be able to probably see
Lenz depositing another chunk of meat in front of the pet and removing something from up near his shoulder under his topcoat as
he's melting stealthily all the way around behind the dog to sort of straddle the big dog from the rear, easing the last of the loaf
down in front of the dog, the big dog hunched, the crunch of Don's cornflake topping and the goopy sound of a dog eating institu-
tional meat. The arm comes out from under the coat and goes up with something that looks like it would glitter if the windows'
yardlight reached far enough. Bruce Green keeps trying to wave his breath out of the way. Lenz's fine coat billows around the
dog's flanks as Lenz braces and leans and gathers the hunched thing's scruff in one hand and straightens up with a mighty grunting
hoist that brings the animal up onto its hind legs as its front legs dig frantically at empty air, and the dog's whine brings a lei-and-
flannel shape to the lit space above one speaker overhead. Green doesn't even think of calling out from his shadowed spot, and the
moment hangs there with the dog upright and Lenz behind it, bringing the upraised hand down in front and hard across the dog's
throat. There's a lightless arc from the spot Lenz's hand crossed; the arc splatters the gate and the sidewalk outside it. The music
balloons without cease but Green hears Lenz say what sounds like 'How dare you' with great emphasis as he drops the dog
forward onto the yard as there's a high-pitched male sound from the form at the window and the dog goes down and hits the
ground on its side with the meaty crunch of a 32-kilo bag of Party-Size Cubelets, all four legs dog-paddling uselessly, the dark
surface of the lawn blackening in a pulsing curve before its jaws that open and close. Green has moved unthinking out of the
vanshadow toward Lenz and now thinks and stops between two trees by the street in front of 416 wanting to call to Lenz and
feeling the strangled aphasia people feel in bad dreams, and so just stands there between the treetrunks with a finger in one ear,
looking. The way Lenz stands over the hull of the big dog is like you stand over a punished child, at full height and radiating
authority, and the moment hangs there distended like that until there's the shriek of long-shut windows opening against the Ho and
the dire sound of numerous high-tempo logger's boots rushing down stairs inside 412. The creepily friendly bachelor that lived
next to his aunt had had two big groomed dogs and when Bruce passed the house the dogs' toenails would scrabble on the wood of
the front porch and run with their tails up to the anodized fence as Bruce came by and jump up and like sort of play the metal
fence with their paws, excited to see him. To just like set eyes on him. Lenz's arm with the knife is up again and ungleaming in the
streetlight's light as Lenz uses his other hand on the top of the fence to vault the fence sideways and tear-ass uphill up Brainerd
Rd. in the southwest direction of Enfield, his loafers making a quality sound on the pavement and his open coat filling like a sail.
Green retreats to behind one of the trees as beefy flannel forms with leis shedding petals, their speech grunty-foreign and
unmistakably Canadian, a couple with ukuleles, spill out like ants over the sagging porch and into the yard, mill and jabber, a
couple kneel by the form of the former dog. A bearded guy so huge a Hawaiian shirt looks tight on him has picked up the meat-
loaf's baggie. Another guy without very much hair picks what looks like a white caterpillar out of the dark grass and holds it up
delicately between his thumb and finger, looking at it. Yet another huge guy in suspenders drops his beer and picks up the limp
dog and it lies across his arms on its back with its head way back like a swooned girl, dripping and with one leg still going, and
the guy is either screaming or singing. The original massive Nuck with the baggie clutches his head to signal agitation as he and
two other Nucks run heavily to the slingshot Montego. A first-floor light in the house across Brainerd lights up and backlights a
figure in a sort of suit and metal wheelchair sitting right up next to the window in the sideways way of wheelchairs that want to
get right up next to something, scanning the street and Nuck-swarmed yard. The Hawaiian music has apparently stopped, but not
abruptly, it's not like somebody took it off in the middle. Green has retreated to behind a tree, which he sort of one-arm-hugs. A
thick girl in a horrible grass skirt is saying 'Dyu!' several times. There are obscenities and heavily accented stock phrases like
'Stop!' and 'There he goes!,' with pointing. Several guys are running up the sidewalk after Lenz, but they're in boots, and Lenz is
way ahead and now disappears as he cuts like a tailback left and disappears down either an alley or a serious driveway, though
you can still hear his fine shoes. One of the guys actually shakes his fist as he gives chase. The Montego with the twin cam reveals
muffler problems and clunks down off the curb and lays two parentheses as it 180s professionally around in the middle of the
street and peels out up in Lenz's direction, a very low and fast and no-shit car, its antenna's gay lei tugged by speed into a strained
ellipse and leaving a wake of white petals that take forever to stop falling. Green thinks his finger might be frozen to his ear's
inside. Nobody seems to be gesticulating about anything about maybe an accomplice. There's no evidence they're looking around
for any other unwittingly guilty accessory-type party. Another wheelchaired form has appeared just behind and to the right of the
first seated backlit form across the street, and they're both in a position to see Green up against the tree with his hand to his ear so
it looks like he's maybe receiving communiques from some kind of earpiece. The Nucks are still milling around the yard in a way
that's indescribably foreign as the one Nuck staggers in circles under the weight of the expired dog, saying something to the sky.
Green is getting to know this one tree very well, spread out against its lee side and breathing into the bark of the tree so his
exhaled breath won't plume out from behind the tree and be seen as an accomplice's breath, potentially.

