

      Mario Incandenza's nineteenth birthday will be Wednesday 25 November, the day before Thanksgiving. His insomnia
worsens as Madame Psychosis's hiatus enters its third week and WYYY tries bringing back poor Miss Diagnosis again, who's
started in on a Pig-Latin reading of the Revelation of John that makes you so embarrassed for her it's uncomfortable. For a couple
nights in the HmH living room he tries falling asleep to WODS, an AM-fringe outfit that plays narcotizing orchestral
arrangements of old Carpenters songs. It makes things worse. It's weird to feel like you miss someone you're not even sure you
know.
      He gets a serious burn on his pelvis leaning against a hot steel stove talking to Mrs. Clarke. His hip is swaddled in bandages
under Orin's old corduroys, and there's a sucking sound of salve when he walks, late at night, unable to sleep. The birth-related
disability that wasn't even definitively diagnosed until Mario was six and had let Orin tattoo his shoulder with the red coil of an
immersion heater is called Familial Dysautonomia, a neurological deficit whereby he can't feel physical pain very well. A lot of
the E.T.A.s kid him about they should have such problems, and even Hal's sometimes felt a twinge of envy about it, but the defect
is a serious hassle and actually very dangerous, see for instance the burnt pelvis, which wasn't even discovered until Mrs. Clarke
thought she smelled her eggplant overcooking.
      At HmH he lies on the air mattress in a tight down bag on the edge of the violet plant-light with the wind rattling the big east
window, listening to buttery violins and what sounds like a zither. There's sometimes a scream upstairs, shrill and drawn out, from
where C.T.'s and the Moms's rooms are. Mario listens closely for whether the sound ends up as Avril laughing or Avril screaming.
She gets night terrors, which are like nightmares but worse, and which afflict small children and apparently also adults who eat the
day's biggest meal right before bed.
      His nighttime prayers take almost an hour and sometimes more and are not a chore. He doesn't kneel; it's more like a
conversation. And he's not crazy, it's not like he hears anybody or anything conversing back with him, Hal's established.
      Hal had asked him when he'll start coming back to their room to sleep, which made Mario feel good.
      He keeps trying to imagine Madame Psychosis -- whom he imagines as being very tall -- lying in an XL beach chair on a
beach smiling and not saying anything for days, resting. But it doesn't work very well.
      He can't tell if Hal is sad. He is having a harder and harder time reading Hal's states of mind or whether he's in good spirits.
This worries him. He used to be able to sort of preverbally know in his stomach generally where Hal was and what he was doing,
even if Hal was far away and playing or if Mario was away, and now he can't anymore. Feel it. This worries him and feels like
when you've lost something important in a dream and you can't even remember what it was but it's important. Mario loves Hal so
much it makes his heart beat hard. He doesn't have to wonder if the difference now is him or his brother because Mario never
changes.
      He hadn't told the Moms he was going to walk around after he left her office after their interface: Avril usually tries in a
nonintrusive way to discourage Mario from taking walks at night, because he doesn't see well at night, and the areas around the
E.T.A. hill are not the best neighborhood, and there's no skirting the fact that Mario would be easy prey for just about anybody,
physically. And, though one perk of Familial Dysautonomia is a relative physical fearlessness, <endnote>242</endnote> Mario keeps to a pretty
limited area during insomniacal strolls, out of deference to Avril's worry. <endnote>243</endnote> He'll sometimes walk around the grounds of the
Enfield Marine P.H.H. at the bottom of the hill's east side because they're pretty much enclosed, the grounds are, and he knows a
couple of the E.M. Security officers from when his father got them to portray Boston police in his whimsical Dial C for
Concupiscence; and he likes the E.M. grounds at night because the different brick houses' window-light is yellow
lamplight <endnote>244</endnote> and he can see people on the ground floors all together playing cards or talking or watching TP. He also likes
whitewashed brick regardless of its state of upkeep. And a lot of the people in the different brick houses are damaged or askew
and lean hard to one side or are twisted into themselves, through the windows, and he can feel his heart going out into the world
through them, which is good for insomnia. A woman's voice, calling for help without any real urgency -- not like the screams that
signify the Moms laughing or screaming at night -- sounds from a darkened upper window. And across the little street that's
crammed with cars everybody has to move at 0000h. is Ennet's House, where the Headmistress has a disability and had had a
wheelchair ramp installed and has twice invited Mario in during the day for a Caffeine-Free Millennial Fizzy, and Mario likes the
place: it's crowded and noisy and none of the furniture has protective plastic wrap, but nobody notices anybody else or comments
on a disability and the Headmistress is kind to the people and the people cry in front of each other. The inside of it smells like an
ashtray, but Mario's felt good both times in Ennet's House because it's very real; people are crying and making noise and getting
less unhappy, and once he heard somebody say God with a straight face and nobody looked at them or looked down or smiled in
any sort of way where you could tell they were worried inside.
      People from the public can't be in there after 2300, though, because they have a Curfew, so Mario just totters past on the
broken sidewalk and looks in the ground windows at all the different people. Every window is lit up with light and some are slid
partly open, and there is the noise of being outside a house full of people. From one of the upstairs windows facing the street
comes a voice going 'Give it here, give it here.' Someone is crying and someone else is either laughing or coughing very hard. An
irritable man's voice from a kitchen window at the side says something to somebody else that just said something like 'So get
dentures,' followed by curse words. Another upstairs window, over at the side by the wheelchair ramp and the kitchen window
where the ground is soft enough to take the stress of a police lock and lead block nicely, the upper window has a billowing
lengthwise flag for a curtain and an old bumper sticker on the glass half scraped off so it says ONE DAY A in cursive, and Mario
is arrested by the quiet but unmistakable sound of a recording of a broadcast of 'Sixty Minutes More or Less with Madame
Psychosis,' which Mario has never taped a show of because he feels it wouldn't be right for him but is strangely thrilled to hear
someone in Ennet's thinking enough of to tape and replay. What's coming from behind the open window with a billowing flag for
a curtain is one of the old ones, from the Year of the Wonderchicken, Madame's inaugural year, when she'd sometimes talk all
hour and had an accent. A hard east wind blows Mario's thin hair straight back off his head. His standing angle is 50°. A female
girl in a little fur coat and uncomfortable-looking bluejeans and tall shoes clicks past on the sidewalk and goes up the ramp into
Ennet's back door without indicating she saw somebody with a really big head standing braced by a police lock on the lawn
outside the kitchen window. The lady had had on so much makeup she'd looked unwell but the wake of her passage smells very
good. For some reason Mario felt like the person behind the flag in the window was also a female. Mario thinks it might not be
out of the question that she might lend tapes to a fellow listener if he could ask. He usually checks etiquette questions with Hal,
who is incredibly knowledgeable and smart. When he thinks of Hal his heart beats and his forehead's thick skin becomes wrinkled.
Hal will also know the term for private tapes made of broadcast things on the air. Perhaps this lady owns multiple tapes. This one
is from 'Sixty Minutes +/-' 's first year, when Madame still had a slight accent and often spoke on the show as if she were talking
exclusively to one person or character who was very important to her. The Moms revealed that if you're not crazy then speaking to
someone who isn't there is termed apostrophe and is valid art. Mario'd fallen in love with the first Madame Psychosis programs
because he felt like he was listening to someone sad read out loud from yellow letters she'd taken out of a shoebox on a rainy p.m.,
stuff about heartbreak and people you loved dying and U.S. woe, stuff that was real. It is increasingly hard to find valid art that is
about stuff that is real in this way. The older Mario gets, the more confused he gets about the fact that everyone at E.T.A. over the
age of about Kent Blott finds stuff that's really real uncomfortable and they get embarrassed. It's like there's some rule that real
stuff can only get mentioned if everybody rolls their eyes or laughs in a way that isn't happy. The worst-feeling thing that
happened today was at lunch when Michael Pemulis told Mario he had an idea for setting up a Dial-a-Prayer telephone service for
atheists in which the atheist dials the number and the line just rings and rings and no one answers. It was a joke and a good one,
and Mario got it; what was unpleasant was that Mario was the only one at the big table whose laugh was a happy laugh;
everybody else sort of looked down like they were laughing at somebody with a disability. The whole issue was far above Mario's
head, and he was unable to understand Lyle's replies when he tried to bring the confusion up. And Hal was for once no help,
because Hal seemed even more uncomfortable and embarrassed than the fellows at lunch, and when Mario brought up real stuff
Hal called him Booboo and acted like he'd wet himself and Hal was going to be very patient about helping him change.
      A lot of people are appearing out of the dark and walking by to go in for the Curfew. They all seem afraid and scowl to
pretend they're not shy. The men have their hands in their coat pockets and the females have their hands at their coats' throats,
keeping them shut. One young person Mario's never seen sees him struggling with the police lock and helps him disengage the bar
and get the lead block into his backpack. Just that little bit of help that makes the difference. Mario is suddenly so sleepy he's not
sure he can get up the hill to go home. The musics that played at the beginning of Madame Psychosis's career are the exact same
that played to the end, what sounds so unacceptable without her there.
     Mario's forward list is perfect for walking up hills, however. His pelvis's salve makes a sound but doesn't hurt. In the big
protruding window of Ennet's House's Headmistress's office that the window overlooks the Avenue and the train tracks and the
Ngs' clean Father and Son Grocery, where they give Mario yellow tea in the A.M. when he comes by when it's cold, the last thing
Mario can see, before the hillside's trees close behind him and reduce the Ennet House to shattered yellow lighting, is a wide
square-headed boy bent over something he's writing at the Headmistress's black desk, licking a pencil-end and hunched all
uncomfortably with one arm curled out around what he's writing in, like a slow boy over a class theme at Rindge and Latin
Special.

