

     MARIO INCANDENZA'S FIRST AND ONLY EVEN REMOTELY ROMANTIC EXPERIENCE, THUS FAR
     In mid-October Y.D.A.U., Hal had invited Mario for a post-prandial stroll, and they were strolling the E.T.A. grounds
between the West Courts and the hillside's tree-line, Hal with his gear bag. Mario could sense that Hal wanted to be able to go off
by himself briefly, so he contrived (Mario did) to be very interested in some sort of leaf-and-twig ensemble off the path, and let
Hal sort of melt away down the path. The whole area running along the tree-line and the thickets of like shrubbery and stickery
bushes and heaven knew what all was covered with fallen leaves that were dry but had not yet quite all the way lost their color.
The leaves were underfoot. Mario kind of tottered from tree to tree, pausing at each tree to rest. It was @ 1900h., not yet true
twilight, but the only thing left of the sunset was a snout just over Newton, and the places under long shadows were cold, and a
certain kind of melancholy sadness was insinuating itself into the grounds' light. The staggered lamps by the paths hadn't come on
yet, however.
     A lovely scent of illegally burned leaves wafting up from East Newton mixed with the foody smells from the ventilator
turbines out of the back of the dining hall. Two gulls were in one place in the air over the dumpsters over by the rear parking lot.
Leaves crackled underfoot. The sound of Mario walking in dry leaves was like: crackle crackle crackle stop; crackle crackle
crackle stop.
     An Empire Waste Displacement displacement vehicle whistled past overhead, rising in the start of its arc, its one blue alert-
light atwinkle.
     He was around where the tree-line bulged herniatically out toward the end of the West Courts' fencing. From deeper inside
the thickets on the lip of the hillside came a tremendous crackling and thrashing of underbrush and trailing willow-branches, and
who should heave into unexpected view but the U.S.S. Millicent Kent, a sixteen-year-old out of Montclair NJ, #1 Singles on the
Girls 16's-A squad and two hundred kilos if she was a kilo. Southpaw, one-hander off the backhand side, a serve Donnie Stott
likes to clock with radar, and chart. Mario's filmed the U.S.S. Millicent Kent for staff-analysis on several occasions. They
exchange hearty Hi's. One of only a couple female E.T.A.s with visible veins in her forearms, object of a fiercely-wagered-on
bench-press challenge against Schacht, Freer, and Pe-tropolis Kahn that M. Pemulis had organized last spring, in which she'd
topped Kahn and Freer refused to show and Schacht finally beat her but doffed his cap. Out for a staff-ordered weight-
management post-dinner stroll, squeezing Penn 5's in both hands, in E.T.A. sweat pants and with an enormous violet bow either
Scotch-taped or glued to the blunt rounded top of her hair. She told Mario she'd just seen the strangest thing farther back deeper in
the thickets off the lip. Her hair was tall and rounded off in the shape of a kind of pill, not unlike a papal hat or a British
constable's tall hat. Mario said the bow looked terrific, and what a surprise to come face to face like this out here in the chill dusk.
Bridget Boone had said the U.S.S. Milli-cent Kent's coiffure looked like a missile protruding from its silo in preparation for
launch. The last of the sun's snout was setting just over the tip of the U.S.S. Millicent's hair, which was almost osseously hard-
looking, composed of dense woven nests of reticulate fibers like a dry loofa sponge, which she said over the summer a home-perm
had misfired and left her hair a system of reticulate nests, and was only now loosening up enough even to attach a bow to. Mario
said that well the bow set her off to a T, was all he had to say on the matter. (He hadn't literally said 'chill dusk.') The U.S.S.M.K.
said she'd been amusing herself beating her way through one of the brambly thickets Mrs. Incandenza had -- when she'd still
spent time outdoors at all -- planted to discourage part-time employees from short-cutting up the hillside to E.T.A., and had come
upon a Husky Vl-brand telescoping tripod, new and dully silvery-looking and set up on its three legs, right in the middle of the
thicket. For no visible reason and with no footprints or visible evidence of path-beating anywhere around except the U.S.S.
Millicent's own. The U.S.S. Millicent Kent stowed a tennis ball in each hip pocket and took Mario's claw and said here to walk
this way and she'd show him real quick, and get his like feedback on the issue, and plus have a witness when they got back and
she told people about it. Mario said the Husky VI came with its own pan head and cable release. With the girl supporting him with
one hand and beating an easement through the brush with the other they proceeded deeper into the thicket on the lip. The outdoor
light was now the same hue as U.S.S.M.K.'s hairbow. She said she swore to God it was around here someplace. Mario said his late
dad had used a somewhat less snazzy IV-model Husky back in his early days of making art-films, when he also used a homemade
dolly and sandbags and halogen spots instead of kliegs. Several different species and types of birds were twittering.
     The U.S.S. Millicent Kent told Mario that off the record she'd always felt he had the longest lushest prettiest lashes of any boy
on two continents, three if you counted Australia. Mario thanked her kindly, calling her Ma'am and trying to fake a Southern
accent.
     The U.S.S. Millicent Kent said she wasn't sure what were her old footprints from finding the thicket with the tripod and what
were their more recent footprints from trying to find the old footprints, and that she was worried because it was starting to get dark
and they might not be able to find it and then Mario wouldn't believe she'd seen something as batshit-sounding as a gleaming
silvery tripod all set up for no reason in the middle of nowheresville.
     Mario said he was pretty sure that Australia was a continent. Walking, he came up to around the bottom of U.S.S. Millicent's
ribcage.
     Mario heard crackling and thrashing from some other thicket nearby but was certain it wasn't Hal, since Hal very rarely made
a lot of motion-noise either outside or in-.
     The U.S.S. Millicent Kent told Mario that though she was an admittedly great player, w/ an overwhelming haul-ass-up-to-the-
net-and-loom-over-it-like-a-titan game in the Betty Stove/Venus Williams power-game tradition, and headed for an almost
limitless future in the Show, she'd confide in him in private out here that she'd never really loved competitive tennis, that her real
love and passion was modern interpretive dance, at which she admittedly had less unconsciously native gifts and talents to bring
to bear, but which she loved, and had spent just about all her off-court time as a little girl practicing in a leotard in front of a
double-width mirror in her room at home in suburban Montclair NJ, but that tennis was what she had limitless talent at and got
emotional strokes and tuition-waiver boarding-school offers in, and that she'd been desperate to get into a boarding school. Mario
asked if she could recall if the Husky-VI tripod had been the TL one with waffle-gridded rubber tips on the legs and a 360° pan
head or the SL one with unwaffled tips and only a 180° pan head that swiveled in an arc instead of a full circle. The U.S.S.
Millicent revealed that she'd accepted a scholarship to E.T.A. at age nine for the sole reason of getting away from her father. She
referred to her father as her Old Man, which you can just tell she capitalizes. Her mother had left home when the U.S.S. Millicent
was only five, running off very abruptly with a man sent by what had then been called Con-Edison to do a free home-energy-
efficiency assessment. It had been six years since she'd laid an eyeball on her Old Man, but to the best of her recall he was almost
three meters tall and morbidly obese, which had been why every mirror and bathtub in the house had been double-width. One
older sister who'd been deeply involved in synchronized swimming had got pregnant and married in high school soon after her
mother's departure.
     All this time there's been more crackling and crashing off up the hillside. Mario has trouble on any kind of declined grade.
Some sort of bird's sitting in the top branch of a little tree and looking at them without saying anything. Mario thinks suddenly of a
joke he remembers hearing Michael Pemulis tell:
     'If two people get married in West Virginia and then pull up stakes and move to Massachusetts and then if they decide they
want to get a divorce, what's the biggest problem getting a divorce?'
     The U.S.S.M.K. says her other older sister had at just fifteen joined the Ice Capades of all things, and was in the back-up-like
chorus where the biggest artistic challenge was not bumping into people and either falling or making them fall.
     'Getting a divorce from your sister, because in West Virginia Pemulis said a lot of people who get married are brother and
sister.'
     'Hold my hand.'
     'He was only joking, though.'
     By now the light was about the same color as the ash and clinkers in the bottom of a Weber Grill. The U.S.S. Millicent Kent
was leading them in a set of slightly diminishing circles. Then, she said, at age eight she came home early from after-school drills
at the U.S.T.A. Jr. Facility in Passaic NJ looking forward to slipping into the old leotard and getting in some modern interpretive
dancing up in her room, only to come home suddenly and find her father wearing her leotard. Which needless to say didn't fit very
well. And with the small front portion of his huge bare feet squeezed into a pair of strapless pumps Mrs. Kent had left behind in
her haste. In the dining room he'd moved all the furniture over to the side of, in front of the really wide mirror, in a grotesquely
tiny and bulging violet leotard, capering. Mario says violet's really the U.S.S. Millicent's color. She says that was the exact creepy
word for it: capering. Pirouetting and rondelling. Simpering, as well. The crotch of her leotard looked like a slingshot, it was so
deformed. He hadn't heard her come in. U.S.S. Millicent asked Mario if he'd ever seen a girl's yin-yang before. Obscene mottled
hirsute flesh had pooched and spilled out over every centimeter of the leotard's perimeter, she recalled. She'd had a voluptuous
figure even at eight, she told Mario, but the Old Man was in a whole different-sized ballpark altogether. Mario kept saying Golly
Ned, all he could think of to say. His flesh jiggled and bounced as he capered. It was repellent, she said. There was no sign of a
Husky VI or any other model of tripod in any of the thickets and boscages. Her literal term for it was 'yin-yang.' But her Old Man
wasn't just a cross-dressing transves-tite, she said; it turned out they always had to be a relative's female clothes. She said she
always used to wonder why her sisters' one-pieces and figure-skating skirts always looked so askewly baggy and elastic-shot,
since the sisters didn't exactly wear tiny little malnourished sizes themselves. The Old Man didn't hear her come in and he capered
and jetéed for several more minutes until she happened to catch his simpering eye in the mirror, she said. That's when she knew
she had to get away, she said. And Mario's own old man's Admissions lady had called out of the blue that very evening, she said.
Like it had been fate. Serendipity. Kismet.
     'Yin-yang,' Mario offered, nodding. The U.S.S. Millicent's hand was large and hot and at the level of sogginess of a bathmat
that's been used several times in a row in quick succession.
     Her second-oldest sister, many years later, had informed the U.S.S.M.K. that the first time anybody'd had any inklings about
the Old Man was an episode when the older sister was very small and Mrs. K. had sewed her a special costume complete with
gold-lame bow & arrow for playing Cupid in the school Valentine's Day pageant, and the sister's school had got out early one day
after an asbestos scare and she'd come unexpectedly home and found the Old Man in the basement rumpus room in tiny wings and
hideously distended diaper striking a pose from a rather well-known Titian oil in the Met's High Renaissance Wing, and had
struggled with denial and own-perceptions-doubting for quite some time thereafter, until a hysterical episode during rehearsals for
an Ice Capades Valentine's Day number brought all the feelings surging up and broke the denial, and the Ice Capades' Employee
Assistance Office counselling staff helped her start to work it all through.
     At which point U.S.S. Míllícent stopped them in an unprickly thicket of what later turned out to be poison sumac and turned
with a strange glint in the one eye that wasn't in pine-shadow and crushed Mario's large head to the area just below her breasts and
said she needed to confess that Mario's eyelashes and vest with extendable police lock he used for staying upright in one place had
for quite some time now driven her right around the bend with sensual feeling. What Mario perceived as a sudden radical drop in
the prevailing temperature was in fact the U.S.S. Millicent Kent's sexual stimulation sucking tremendous quantities of ambient
energy out of the air surrounding them. Mario's face was so squashed against the U.S.S. Millicent's thorax that he had to contort
his mouth way out to the left to breathe. U.S.S.M.K.'s hairbow became detached and fluttered down through Mario's sightline like
a giant crazed violet moth. U.S.S.M.K. was trying to undo Mario's corduroys but was frustrated by the complex system of snaps
and fasteners at the bottom of his police lock's Velcro vest, which overlapped his trouser's own fasteners, and Mario tried to
reconfigure his mouth somehow to both breathe and warn the U.S.S.M.K. that he was incredibly ticklish in the area of the
bellybutton and directly below. He could now start to hear his brother Hal somewhere to the above and east, calling Mario's name
at a moderate volume. The U.S.S. Millicent Kent was saying there was no way Mario could be any more nervous than she was
about what was happening between them. It's true that the sounds of Mario sucking air out of a severely leftward-contorted mouth
could have been interpretable as the heavy breathing of sexual stimulation. It was when the U.S.S. Millicent wrapped one arm
around his shoulder for leverage and forced her other hand up under the hem of the tight vest and then down inside the trousers
and briefs, rooting for a penis, that Mario became so ticklish that he began to double up, clearing his face of U.S.S. Millicent's
front and laughing out loud in such a distinctive high-pitched way that Hal had no trouble beelining right upon them,
compromised though his navigational systems were after fifteen or so secret minutes alone in the fragrant pines. Mario later said it
was just like when there was a word on the tip of your tongue that try as you might you can't remember until the exact second you
stop trying, and in it pops, right into your head: it was when the three of them were walking together back up the hillside toward
the tree-line's lip, not trying to do anything but get back to Comm.-Ad. by the most direct route in the dark, that they stumbled
upon the cinematic tripod, a dully glinting TL waffle-tipped Husky, in the middle of what wasn't such a very tall or thick thicket at
all.

