     19 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     After Rémy Marathe and Ossowiecke, and Balbalis also, they all reported back negatively for all signs of this veiled
performer, M. Fortier and Marathe threw into an effect this finally most drastic of the operations for the locating of the Master
Entertainment. This was to acquire members of the immediate family of the auteur, perhaps in public.
     Marathe was charged with this operation's details, for M. Broullîme was now thrust into technical trouble-killing on the
furthering field-tests of viewer willingness; for one of the newly acquired test-subjects -- this was an eccentrically dressed and
extremely irritating without-home man of the streets in a white wig appropriated with large bags filled of foreign cook-ware and
extremely small-in-size ladies' undergarments -- was discovered to have been being severing and pushing beneath the room of
storage's closed door the severed digits of the second of the newly acquired test-subjects -- this was a mis-dressed and severely
weakened or addicted man dressed in the clothing of a gauche woman, carrying multiple purses of suspicious nature -- rather than
his own digits, marring the statistics of Broullîme's field-experiment to such the extent that M. Fortier was forced to consider
whether to allow Broullîme to conduct a lethal technical interview of the wigged substituter of digits for reasons of anger only.
Substantially, a technical interview of more importance was to be conducted in the city Phoenix far across the U.S. to the south, a
city's name Fortier had amusement from, and departed before incoming weather to attend Mile. Luria P------in this conducting,
leaving the trusted Rémy Marathe to charge details of the preliminary acquisition.
     Marathe, who had made his decision and call, did what he could. A direct assault upon the Academy of Tennis itself was
impossible. A.F.R.s fear nothing in this hemisphere except tall and steep hillsides. Their attack must not be direct. Thus the
preliminary was to acquire and replace the tennis children of Quebec, known by the A.F.R. to be even then en route to U.S.A. soil
for gala competition with the tennis children of this Academy. Marathe selected young Balbalis, the one still with both the legs --
albeit paralyzed and stickishly withered, them -- to lead the A.F.R. field-detail which must intercept the provincial players.
Marathe, he stayed at the Cambridge shop of the Antitois, withdrawing frequently to the jazz nights nearby of Ryle's restaurant.
Balbalis drove the modified van of Dodge north into the increasingly heavy snowstorm. They bypassed the Pongo checkpoint at
Methuen MA. They would place a large mirror in the deserted road and delude the tennis bus that it must leave the road to avoid
impact; its own headlights would delude it. An old F.L.Q. trick. Two teams in the van's back assembled the mirror's components.
Balbalis would not allow to stop for this assembly; the snowfall was worse in the Convexity because of the fans to the south. What
used to be Montpelier in Vermont lay between E.W.D. grids but took bad fallout from the region of Champlain and was
unoccupied and ghostly white with snow. Balbalis permitted at Montpelier a brief stop for final assembly and for those who were
incontinent to change their bags. Balbalis pressed hard to the former place of St. Johnsbury, where the mirror was installed across
the southbound lanes of the U.S. Interstate #91. Balbalis did not complain that there were no tracks in the snow of the road to be
followed. He never complained. They arrived well early just south of the checkpoint at which Provincial Autoroute #55 became
the Interstate #91. There was a brief period of the tension when it appeared that the night-vision attachment for the binoculars had
been misplaced. Balbalis remained cool and it was located. The plan was to intercept the travelling team of players and allow
A.F.R.s to arrive at the place in their stead. Marathe promised to conceive an excellent ruse to explain the wheelchairs and adult
beards of the false players. There was no smoking in the van while they waited for the children tennis players of their country to
appear at the checkpoint. The bus was forced to remain at the checkpoint for several minutes. The bus was large and chartered and
appeared warm within. Above its windshield its lit rectangle of destination displayed the English word for charter. If the bus
survived the swerve from the highway's mirror and was operational after the crash of swerving, Balbalis would drive this bus.
There was one brief argument over who would be required to drive the van, for Balbalis refused to leave the van behind them even
if the bus was operational. If the bus was not operational, no more than six junior children as survivors could be accommodated in
the van. The rest would be allowed to die for leur rai pays. Balbalis, he showed no preference one or the other way.