     I went down the hall to take out the tobacco and brush my teeth and rinse out the Spiru-Tein can, which had gotten an
unpleasant crust along the sides. The subdorm halls were curved and had no corners as such, but you can see at most three doors
and the jamb of the fourth from any point in the hall before the curve extrudes into your line of sight. I wondered briefly whether
it was true that small children believed their parents could see them even around corners and curves.
     The high wind's moan and doors' rattle were worse in the uncarpeted hall. I could hear faint sounds of early-morning weeping
in certain rooms beyond my line of sight. Lots of the top players start the A.M. with a quick fit of crying, then are basically hale
and well-wrapped for the rest of the day.
     The walls of the subdorms' hallways are dinner-mint blue. The walls of the rooms themselves are cream. All the woodwork is
dark and varnished, as is the guilloche that runs below all E.T.A. ceilings; and the dominant odor in the hallways is always a
mixture of varnish and tincture of benzoin.
     Someone had left a window open by the sinks in the boys' room, and a hump of snow lay on the sill, and on the floor beneath
the window by the sink on the end, whose hot-water pipe shrieks, was a parabolic dusting of snow, already melting at the apex. I
turned on the lights and the exhaust fan kicked on with them; for some reason I could barely stand its sound. When I put my head
out the window the wind came from nowhere and everywhere, the snow swirling in funnels and eddies, and there were little grains
of ice in the snow. It was brutally cold. Across the East Courts, the paths were obscured, and the pine's branches were near
horizontal under their snow's weight. Schtitt's transom and observation tower looked menacing; it was still dark and snow-free on
the lee side facing Comm.-Ad. The sight of distant ATHSCME fans displacing great volumes of snowy air northward is one of the
better winter views from our hilltop, but visibility was now too poor to make out the fans, and the liquid hiss of the snow was too
total to make out whether the fans were even on. The Headmaster's House wasn't much more than a humped shape off by the north
tree-line, but I could picture poor C.T. at the living room window in leather slippers and Scotch-plaid robe, seeming to pace even
when standing still, raising and lowering the antenna of the phone in his hand, with several calls out already to Logan, M.I.A.-
Dorval, WeatherNet-9OOO's recorded update, heavy-browed figures in Quebec's O.N.A.N.T.A. office, C.T.'s forehead a wash-
board and lips moving soundless as he brainstormed his way toward a state of Total Worry.
     I brought my head back in when I could no longer feel my face. I made my little ablutions. I hadn't had to go to the bathroom
in a serious way in three days.
     The digital display up next to the ceiling's intercom read 11-18-ESTO456.
     When the whap-whap of the bathroom door subsided I heard a quiet voice with an odd tone farther up around the curve of the
hallway. It turned out that good old Ortho Stice was sitting in a bedroom-chair in front of a hall window. He was facing the
window. The window was closed, and he had his forehead up against the glass, either talking or chanting to himself very quietly.
The whole lower part of the window was fogged with his breath. I came up behind him, listening. The back of his head was that
shark-belly gray-white of crew cuts so short the scalp shows through. I was more or less right behind his chair. I couldn't tell
whether he was talking to himself or chanting something. He didn't turn around even when I rattled my toothbrush in the NASA
glass. He had on his classic Darknesswear: black sweatshirt, black sweatpants on which he'd had a red and gray E.T.A.
silkscreened down both legs. His feet were bare on the cold floor. I was standing right beside the chair, and he still didn't look up.
     'Who's that now?' he said, staring straight ahead through the window.
     'Hi Orth.'
     'Hal. You're up kind of early.'
     I rattled my toothbrush a little to indicate a shrug. 'You know. Up and about.'
     'What's the matter?'
     'What do you mean?' I asked.
     'Your voice. Shoot, are you crying? What's the matter?'
     My voice had been neutral and a bit puzzled. 'I'm not crying, Orth.'
     'Well then.' Stice breathed onto the window. He reached up without moving his head and scratched the back of his crew cut.
'Up and around. We going to play some furriners out there today or what?'
     For the past ten days I'd always felt worst in the early a.m., before dawn. There's something elementally horrific about waking
before dawn. The window was unobscured above The Darkness's breath-line. The snow wasn't swirling or pummelling the
window as much on the building's east side, but the lee side's absence of wind showed just how hard new snow was coming down.
It was like a white curtain endlessly descending. The sky was lightening here on the east side, a paler gray-white, not unlike
Stice's crew-cut. I realized that from his position he could see only condensed breath on the window, no reflections. I made a few
grotesque, distended, pop-eyed faces at him behind his back. They made me feel worse.
     I rattled the brush. 'Well, if we do, it's not going to be out there. It's drifting about up to the tape on the west nets. They'll have
to try to get us indoors somewhere.'
     Stice breathed. 'There's no indoor place's got thirty-six courts, Inc. Winchester Club's got twelve is maybe the most. Fucking
Mount Auburn's only got eight.'
     'They'll have to move us around to different sites. It's a pain in the ass, but Schtitt's done it before. I think the real variable'11
be whether the Quebec kids got into Logan last night before whenever it was this hit.'
     'Logan'll be shut down you're saying.'
     'But I think we'd have heard if they got in last night. Freer and Struck were keeping tabs on an F.A.A. link ever since supper,
Mario said.'
     'Boys are looking to get X'd by some slow-witted hairy-legged foreign girls or what?'
     'My guess is they're stuck up at Dorval. I'll bet C.T. is on the case even now. Get some sort of announcement at breakfast,
probably.'
     This was a clear opening for The Darkness to do a quick C.T. impression, wondering aloud over the phone to the Québecois
coach whether he, C.T., should press for them to charter ground transport from Montreal or else rather urge them not to risk travel
through the Concavity in a storm in such a generous but disappointed gesture the Québecois would think busing the 400 clicks to
Boston in a blizzard was his own generous idea, C.T. wholly open, opening all different psych-strategies to the coach's inspection,
with the frantic ruffling sound of the coach's French-English dictionary loud in the phone's background. But Stice just sat there
with his forehead against the glass. His bare feet were tapping some sort of rhythm on the floor. The hallway was freezing, and his
toes had a faint blue tinge. He blew air out of his lips in a tight sigh, making his fat cheeks flap a little; we called this his horse-
sound.
     'Were you talking to yourself out here, or chanting, or what?'
     A silence ensued.
     'Heard this one joke,' Stice said finally.
     'Let's hear it.'
     'You want to hear it?'
     'I could use a quality laugh right now, Dark,' I said.
     'You too?'
     Another silence ensued. Two different people were weeping at different pitches behind closed doors. A toilet flushed on the
second floor. One of the weepers was nearly skirling, an inhuman keening sound. There was no way to tell which E.T.A. male it
was, which door back down past the walls' curve.
     The Darkness scratched the back of his head again without moving his head. His hands looked almost luminous against the
black sleeves.
     'There's these three statisticians gone duck hunting,' he said. He paused. 'They're like statisticians by trade.'
     'I'm with you so far.'
     'And they gone off hunting duck, and they're hunkered down in the muck of a duck blind, for hunting, in waders and hats and
all, your top-of-the-line Winchester double-aughts, so on. And they're quacking into one of them kazoos duck hunters always
quack into.'
     'Duck-calls,' I said.
     'There you go.' Stice tried to nod against the window. 'Well and here comes this one duck come flying on by overhead.'
     'Their quarry. The object of their being out there.'
     'Damn straight, their raisin-debt and what have you, and they're getting set to blast the son of a whore into feathers and goo,'
Stice said. 'And the first statistician, he brings up his Winnie and lets go, and the recoil goes and knocks him back on his ass
kersplat in the muck, and but he's missed the duck, just low, they saw. And so the second statistician he up and fires then, and
back he goes too on his ass too, these Winnies got a fucker of a recoil on them, and back on his ass the second one goes, from
firing, and they see his shot goes just high.'
     'Misses the duck as well.'
     'Misses her just high. At which and then the third statistician commences to whooping and jumping up and down to beat the
band, hollering "We got him, boys, we done got him!'`
     Someone was crying out in a bad dream and someone else was yelling for quiet. I wasn't even pretending to laugh. Stice
didn't seem to expect me to. He shrugged without moving his head. His forehead had not once left the cold glass.
     I stood next to him in silence and held my NASA glass with the toothbrush and looked out over the top of Stice's head
through the window's upper half. The snowfall was intense and looked silky. The East Courts' pavilion's green canvas roof bowed
ominously down, its white GATOR-ADE logo obscured. A figure was out there, not under the shelter of the pavilion but sitting in
the bleachers behind the east Show Courts, leaning back with his elbows on one level and bottom on the next and feet stretched
out below, not moving, wearing what seemed to be puffy and bright enough to be a coat, but getting buried by snow, just sitting
there. It was impossible to tell the person's age or sex. Church spires off in Brookline were darkening as the sky lightened behind
them. The beginning of dawn looked like moonlight through the snow. Several people were at their vehicles' windshields with
scrapers down along Commonwealth Avenue. Their images were tiny and dark and fluttered; the Avenue's line of buried parked
cars looked like igloo after igloo, some sort of Eskimo tract-housing thing. It had never before snowed like this in mid-November.
A snow-covered B train labored uphill like a white slug. It seemed clear that the T would be suspending routes before long. The
snow and cold sunrise gave everything a confected quality. The portcullis between the driveway and the parking lot was half up,
probably to keep it from being frozen closed. I couldn't see who was in the portcullis's security booth. The attendants always came
and went, most of them from the Ennet House place, trying to 'recover.' The flagpole's two flags were frozen and stuck right out
straight, turning stiffly from side to side in the wind, like someone in a neck-brace, instead of flapping. The E.T.A. physical-post
mailbox just inside the portcullis had a mo-hawk of snow. The whole scene had an indescribable pathos to it. Slice's fogged breath
kept me from seeing anything closer than the mailbox and East Courts. The light was starting to diffract into colors at the
perimeter of Slice's breath-fog on the window.
       'Schacht heard that joke down at the Cranial place from some B.U. fellow with just terrible facial pain, he said,' Stice said.
       Tm going to go ahead and ask the question, D-man.'
       'It's a statistics joke. You got to know your medials means and modes.'
       'I get the joke, Orth. The question is how come you've got your forehead all up against the window like that when your
breath's keeping you from seeing anything. What are you trying to look at? And isn't your forehead getting kind of cold?'
       Stice didn't nod. He made his horse-sound again. He had always had the face of a fat man on a fit man's lean body. I hadn't
noticed before that he had an odd little teardrop of extra flesh low down on his right jowl, like a bit of skin with mole-aspirations.
He said 'The forehead stopped feeling cold a couple hours back, when I lost all my feeling in it.'
       'You've been sitting here with bare feet and your forehead against the glass for a couple hours?'
       'More like four, I think.'
       I could hear a night-custodial crew laughing and clanking a bucket right below us. Only one was laughing. It was Kenkle and
Brandt.
       'My next question's pretty obvious, then, Orth.'
       He gave another awkward shrug that didn't involve his head. 'Well. It's sort of embarrassing, here, Inc,' he said. He paused.
'It's stuck is what it is.'
       'Your forehead's stuck to the window?'
       'Best as I can recollect I wake up, it's just after 0100, fuckin Coyle's having them discharges again and there's no sleeping
through that, boy.'
       'I shudder to think, Orth.'
       'And Coyle 'course just doesn't even hit the light just hauls out a fresh sheet from the stack under his bunk and goes right back
to sawing logs. And I'm wide awake by this point in time, though, and then I couldn't get back under.'
       'Couldn't get back to sleep.'
       'Something's real wrong, I can tell,' The Darkness said. 'Pre-Fundraiser nerves? The WhataBurger coming up? You feel
yourself starting to climb plateaux, starting to play the way you came here hoping one day to play, and part of you doesn't believe
it, it feels wrong. I went through this. Believe me, I can und--'
       Stice automatically tried to shake his head and then gave a small cry of pain. 'Not that. None of that. Long fucking story. I'm
not even sure I'd want anybody to believe it. Forget that part. The point's I'm up there -- I'm lying there real sweaty and hot and
jittered. I jump on down and got a chair and brang it out here to set where it's cool.'
       'And where you don't have to lie there and contemplate Coyle's sheet slowly ripening under his bunk,' I said, shuddering a
little.
       'And it's just starting to snow, then, out. It's about maybe like 0100. I thought how I'd just set and watch the snow a little and
settle on down and then go grab some sack down in the V.R.' He scratched at the reddening back of his scalp again.
       'And as you watched, you rested your head pensively against the glass for just a second.'
       'And that was all she wrote. Forgot the forehead was sweated up. Whammo. Kertwanged my own self. Just like remember
when Rader and them got Ingersoll to touch his tongue on that net-post last New Year's? Stuck here fucking tight as that tongue,
Hal. Hell of a lot more total stuck area, too, than Ingersoll. He only did lose that smidgeon off the tip. Inc, I tried to pull her off her
about 0230, and there was this fucking . . . sound. This sound and a feeling like the skin'll give before the bind will, sure. Frozen
stuck. And this here's more skin than I care to say goodbye to, buddy-ruff.' He was speaking just above a whisper.
       'Jesus, and you've just been sitting here all this time.'
       'Well shit I was embarrassed. And it never got quite bad enough to yell out. I kept thinking if it gets a little worse I'll go on
and yell out. And then along about 03 I quit feeling the forehead altogether.'
       'You've just been sitting here waiting for someone to happen along. Chanting quietly to keep up your courage.'
       'I was just praying like hell it wouldn't be Pemulis. God only knows what that son of a whore'd've thunk of to do to me here
all helpless and immobi-lated. And Troeltsch is sawing logs just inside that door there, with his fucking mike and cable and
ambitions. I've been praying he don't wake up. And let's don't even mention that son of a bitch Freer.'
       I looked at the door. 'But that's Axhandle's single. What would Troeltsch be doing sleeping in Axhandle's room?'
       Ortho shrugged. 'Trust that I've had plenty of time to listen and identify different folks' snores, Inc.'
       I looked from Stice to Axford's door and back. 'So you've just been sitting here listening to sleep-noises and watching your
breath expand and freeze on the window?' I said. Imagining it seemed somehow unendurable: me just sitting there, stuck, well
before sunrise, alone, too embarrassed to call out, my own exhalations fouling the window and denying me even a view to divert
attention from the horror. I stood there horrified, admiring The Darkness's ballsy calm.
       'There was a kind of real bad half-hour when my upper lip up and got stuck too, in the breath, when the breath froze. But I
breathed the sucker loose. I breathed real hot and fast. Goddamn near hyper-v'd. I was scared if I passed out I'd slump on forward
and the whole face'd get stuck. Goddamn forehead's bad enough.'
       I put my toothbrush and NASA glass down on the cantilevered vent-module. Rooms' vents were recessed, hallway-vents
protrusive. E.T.A.'s annular heating system produced a lubricated hum I had stopped really hearing years ago. The Headmaster's
House still had oil heat; it always sounded like a maniac was hammering at the pipes far below.
     'Dark, prepare yourself mentally,' I said. 'I'm going to help pull you loose.'
     Stice didn't seem to hear this. He seemed oddly preoccupied for a man occlusively sealed to a frozen window. He was feeling
at the back of his head with real vigor, which is what he did when he was preoccupied. 'You believe in shit, Hal?'
     'Shit?'
     'I don't know. Little-kid shit. Telekiniption. Ghosts. Parabnormal shit.'
     'Just going to get around behind you and yank and we'll pop you right off,' I said.
     'Somebody did come by before,' he said. 'There was somebody standing back there about maybe an hour back. But he just
stood there. Then he went away. Or ... it.' A full-body shiver.
     'It'll be like that last little bit of ankle-tape. We'll pull you back so hard and fast you won't feel a thing.'
     'I'm getting these real unpleasant memories of that piece of IngersolPs tongue on Nine's net-post that stayed there til spring.'
     'This is no saliva-and-subzero-metal situation, Dark. This is some freakish occlusive seal. Glass doesn't conduct heat like
metal conducts heat.'
     'There ain't too fucking much heat involved in this window right here, buddy-ruff.'
     'And I'm not sure what you mean, paranormal. I believed in vampires when I was small. Himself allegedly used to see his
father's ghost on stairways sometimes, but then again toward the end he used to see black-widow spiders in his hair, too, and
claimed I wasn't speaking sometimes when I was sitting right there speaking to him. So we kind of wrote it all off. Orth, I guess I
don't know what to think about paranormal shit.'
     Then plus I think something bit me. On the back of the head here, some bug that knew I was helpless and couldn't see.' Stice
dug again at the red area behind his ear. There was a kind of weltish bump there. It wasn't in a vampire-related area of the neck.
     'And good old Mario says he's seen paranormal figures, and he's not kidding, and Mario doesn't lie,' I said. 'So belief-wise I
don't know what to think. Subhadronic particles behave ghostishly. I think I withhold all pre-judgment on the whole thing.'
     'Well all right then. It was good it was you come by then.'
     'The big thing's going to be to stiffen the old neck, Dark, to avoid whiplash. We'll pull you off there like a cork from a bottle
of Moët.'
     'Pull my sorry ass off here, Inc, and I'll take and show you some parab-normal shit that'll shake your personal tree but good,'
Stice said, bracing, "n't said nothing to nobody but Lyle about it, and I'm sick of the secretness of it. You won't pre-formulize any
judgments, Inc, I know.'
     'You're going to be fine,' I said. I got right behind Stice and bent slightly and got an arm around his chest. His wooden chair
creaked as I braced my knee against it. Stice began breathing fast and hard. His parotitic jowls flapped a little as he breathed. Our
cheeks were almost pressed together. I told him I was going to pull on the count of Three. I actually pulled on Two, so he couldn't
brace himself. I pulled back as hard as I could, and after a stutter of resistance Stice pulled back with me.
     There was a horrible sound. The skin of his forehead distended as we yanked his head back. It stretched and distended until a
sort of shelf of stretched forehead-flesh half a meter long extended from his head to the window. The sound was like some sort of
elastic from hell. The dermis of Slice's forehead was still stuck fast, but the abundant loose flesh of Stice's bulldog face had risen
and gathered to stretch and connect his head to the window. And for a second I saw what might be considered Stice's real face, his
features as they would be if not encased in loose jowly prairie flesh: as every mm. of spare flesh was pulled up to his forehead and
stretched, I got a glimpse of Stice as he would appear after a radical face-lift: a narrow, fine-featured, and slightly rodential face,
aflame with some sort of revelation, looked out at the window from beneath the pink visor of stretched spare skin.
     All this took place in less than second. For just an instant we both stayed there, straining backward, listening to the little Rice-
Krispie sound of his skin's collagen-bundles stretching and popping. His chair was leaning way back on its two rear legs. Then
Stice shrieked in pain: 'Jesus God put it back!' The little second face's blue eyes protruded like cartoon eyes. The fine little thin-
lipped second mouth was a round coin of pain and fear.
     'Put it back put it back put it back!' Stice yelled.
     I couldn't just let go, though, for fear that the elastic stretch would snap Stice forward into the window and send his face
through the glass. I eased him forward, watching the chair's front legs descend slowly to the floor; and the tension of the
forehead's skin decreased, and Slice's full fleshy round face reappeared over the small second face, and covered it, and we eased
him forward until nothing but a few centimeters of decollagenated forehead-skin hanging and sagging at about eyelash-level
remained as evidence of the horrific stretch.
     'Jesus God,' Stice panted.
     'You are really and truly stuck, Orth.'
     'Fuck me skating did that ever hurt.'
     I tried to rotate a kink out of my shoulder. 'We're going to have to thaw it off, Dark.'
     'You're not getting close to this forehead with a saw, bud. I'll set right-cheer till spring first, see if I don't.'
     Then Jim Troeltsch's towering A.M.-cowlick and then face and fist emerged through Axford's doorway just over Stice's
hunched shoulder. Stice had been right. Being in somebody else's room even after Lights Out was an infraction; staying there
overnight was too far out even to mention in the regulations. 'Reports of screaming have reached us here in the Eyewitness News-
Center,' Troeltsch said into his fist.
     'The fuck out of here, Troeltsch,' Stice said.
     'Thaw, Ortho. Warm water. Heat the window. Hot water. Dissolve the adhesion. Heating pad. Hot pack from Loach's office or
something.'
     'Loach's door can't be dickied,' Stice said. 'Don't wake him up on Fundraiser day yet.'
     Troeltsch extended the fist. 'Reports of high-pitched screams have led this reporter to an unfolding scene of dramatic crisis,
and we're going to attempt to get a word with the youngster at the center of all the commotion.'
     'Tell him to pipe down and get back with that hand or so help me Jesus, Hal.'
     'The Darkness accidentally put his forehead against the window here when it was wet and it froze and he's been out here stuck
all night,' I told Troeltsch, ignoring the big fist he held to my face. I squeezed Stice's shoulder. 'I'll go get Brandt to rig something
warm.'
     It was as if some tacit agreement had been reached not even to bring up Troeltsch's being in Axford's room or where Axford
was. It was hard to know which would be more disturbing, Axford's not being in his room all night or Axford being in there
behind the ajar door, meaning Troeltsch and Axford had both spent the night in one small single with exactly one bed. The
universe seemed to have aligned itself so that even acknowledging it would violate some tacit law. Troeltsch seemed oblivious to
any appearance of impropriety or unthinkable possibilities. It was hard to imagine he'd be this obnoxious if he felt he had
something to be discreet about. He was standing on tiptoe to see over the window's breath-line, one hand cupped over his ear as if
to hold a headset. He whistled softly. 'Plus in addition now reports of mind-boggling snowfall are coming in to the News-Center.'
     I grabbed my toothbrush and NASA glass from the vent's protrusion; since the Betel Caper, <footnote>352</footnote> only the worst kind of naïf
leaves his toothbrush unattended around E.T.A. 'Keep an eye on Stice and my NASA glass right there, Jim, if you would.'
     'Any comment on the mixture of pain, cold, embarrassment, and weather-related feelings you must be feeling, Mr. Stice is it?'
     'Don't leave me immobilated with Troeltsch, man, Hal. He's going to make me talk to his hand.'
     'A weather-related drama unfolding around the original plight of an embarrassed man trapped by his own forehead,' Troeltsch
was saying into his fist, facing his own reflection in the window, trying with the other big hand to quash the cowlick, as I trotted
and slid to a stop in my socks just past the door to the stairwell.
     Kenkle and Brandt were ageless in the special desiccated way janitors are ageless, somewhere between thirty-five and sixty.
They were inseparable and essentially unemployable. Boredom had years ago led us to Lateral Alice Moore's minimally crypto-
protected employee files, and Brandt's file had listed his S.-B. I.Q. as Submoronic-to-Moronic. He was bald and somehow at once
overweight and wiry. Both right and left temples carried red jagged surgical scars of unknown origin. His affective range
consisted of different intensities of grin. He lived with Kenkle in an attic apartment in Roxbury Crossing overlooking Madison
Park High School's locked and cordoned playground, famed site of unsolved ritual mutilations in the Year of the Perdue
Wonderchicken. His major attraction for Kenkle seemed to consist in the fact that he neither walked away nor interrupted when
Kenkle was speaking. Even in the stairwell I could hear Kenkle discoursing on their Thanksgiving plans and directing Brandt's
mop-work. Kenkle was technically black, as in Negroid, though he was more the burnt-sienna color of a spoiled pumpkin. But his
hair was a black person's hair, and he wore it in thick dreadlocks that looked like a crown of wet cigars. An academic diamond in
the very rough Roxbury Crossing, he'd received his doctorate in low-temperature physics from U.Mass. at twenty-one and taken a
prestigious sinecure at the U.S. Office of Naval Research, then at twenty-three had been court-martialed out of the O.N.R. for
offenses that changed each time you asked him. Some event between twenty-one and twenty-three seemed to have broken him at
several strategic points, and he'd retreated from Bethesda back to the front stoop of his old Roxbury Crossing apartment building,
where he read Ba'hai texts whose jackets he covered with intricately folded newspaper, and spat spectacular parabolas of
quivering phlegm into New Dudley Street. He was dark-freckled and carbuncular and afflicted with excess phlegm. He was an
incredible spitter, and alleged his missing incisors had been removed 'for facilitating the expec-toratory process.' We all suspected
he was either hypomanic or 'drine-addicted or both. His expression was very serious at all times. He discoursed nonstop to poor
Brandt, using spit as a sort of conjunction between clauses. He spoke loudly because they both wore earplugs of expanding foam
-- people's nightmare-cries gave them the fantods. Their custodial technique consisted of Kenkle spitting with pinpoint accuracy
onto whatever surface Brandt was to clean next and Brandt trotting like a fine hunting dog from glob to glob, listening and
grinning, laughing when appropriate. They were moving away from me down the hall toward the second floor's east window,
Brandt making great shining arcs with his doh"s-head mop, Kenkle pulling the gunmetal bucket and lobbing signifying phlegm
over Brandt's bent back.
     'And then the Yuletide season, Brandt my friend Brandt -- Christmas -- Christmas morning -- What is the essence of
Christmas morning but the childish co-eval of venereal interface, for a child? -- A present, Brandt -- Something you have not
earned and which formerly was out of your possession is now in your po-ssession -- Can you sit there and try to say there is no
symbolic rela-tion between unwrapping a Christmas present and undressing a young lady?'
     Brandt bobbed and mopped, uncertain whether to laugh.
     Himself had met Kenkle and Brandt on the T (Kenkle and Brandt apparently rode the T at night, recreationally), trying
somehow to make it up to Enfield from the Back Bay via the Orange Line, <footnote>353</footnote> and somewhat the worse for wear. Kenkle and
Brandt not only got Himself onto the right color train and kept him propped up between them all the way up the eternity of
Comm. Ave., they'd seen him safely down the T-stop's steep iron stairs and across traffic and up the hill's serpentine driveway to
the portcullis, and had been invited in at 0200 by Himself to continue whatever low-temperature discussion he and Kenkle had
been having as Brandt carried Himself up the hill in a fireman's carry (Kenkle recalls that night's discussion being about the
human nose as an erectile organ, but the only really sure bet is that it was one-sided); and the duo had ended up being cast as
black-veiled Noh-style attendants in Himself's Zero-Gravity Tea Ceremony, and had been menially employed at E.T.A. ever
since, though always on the graveyard shift, since Mr. Harde loathed Kenkle with a passion.
     Kenkle hawked and hit a small strip of dust at the crease of baseboard and floor that the mop's arc had missed. 'For I am a
missionary man, Brandt, is what I am -- Brandt -- as in give me the straight-forward venereal in-terface of missionary congress
or give me nihil and zilch -- You know what I am saying? -- Give me your best thoughts on alter-native positions, Brandt --
Brandt -- For me, for my part at least, I say nix and nihil on the rear-entry or you might hear it termed Dog- or Canine-Style
interface so favored in huts, blue car-tridges, Tan-tric etchings -- Brandt, it's animal-istic -- Why? -- Why you say? -- Brandt, it
is an ess-entially hunched way to have interface -- She hunches, you hunch over her -- In-ordinately too much hunching, to my
own way of--'
     It was Brandt who heard me as I came up behind them in socks, trying to keep to the drier patches. I almost slipped twice. It
was still coming down hard outside the east window.
     'Otto Brandt here!' Brandt called to me, extending a hand, though I was still several meters away.
     Kenkle's dreadlocks protruded from under a plaid hat. He turned with Brandt and raised his hand Indianishly in greeting.
'Good prince Hal. Up and dressed in dawn's ear-a-ly.'
      'Let me introduce myself,' Brandt said. I shook his hand.
      'In his socks and toothbrush. E.T.A.'s athe-ling, Brandt, whom I will wager rar-e-ly hunches.'
      'The Darkness needs you guys upstairs ASAP,' I said, trying to dry a sock against a pant-leg. 'Dark's face is stuck to the
window and he's in terrible pain and we couldn't pull it off and it's going to take hot water, but not too hot.' I indicated the bucket
at Kenkle's feet. I noticed Kenkle's shoes didn't match.
      'What may we ask is so amusing, then?' Kenkle asked.
      'Name's Brandt and pleased to meet you,' Brandt said, out with the hand again. He dropped the mop where Kenkle pointed.
      'Troeltsch is with him now, but he's in a bad way,' I said, shaking Brandt's hand.
      'We are in route,' Kenkle said, 'but why the hilarity?'
      'What hilarity?'
      Kenkle looked from me to Brandt to me. 'What hilarity he says. Your face is a hilarity-face. It's working hilariously. At first it
merely looked a-mused. Now it is open-ly cach-inated. You are almost doubled over. You can barely get your words out. You're
all but slapping your knee. That hilarity, good Prince atheling Hal. I thought all you players were compadre-mundos in civilian
life.'
      Brandt beamed as he backed down the hall. Kenkle pushed his plaid cap back to scratch at some sort of eruption at the
hairline. I drew myself up to full height and consciously composed my face into something deadly-somber. 'How about now?'
      Brandt had the custodial closet unlocked. There was the sound of a metal bucket being filled at the closet's industrial tap.
      Kenkle brought his cap back forward and narrowed his eyes at me. He came up close. His eyelashes were clotted with small
crisp yellow flakes. There were Struck-like facial cysts in various stages of development. Kenkle's breath always smelled vaguely
of egg salad. He felt at his mouth speculatively for a moment and said 'Somewheres now between amused and cach-inated. Mirth-
ful, perhaps. The crinkled eyes. The dimples of mirth. The exposed gums. We can bounce this off Brandt's best thinking as well,
if--'
      From directly overhead came a ceiling-rattling 'GYAAAAAAA' from Stice. I was feeling at my face. Some doors opened
along the hall, heads protruding. Brandt had a full metal bucket and was trying to run to the stairwell, the weight of the bucket
canting his shoulder and steaming water sloshing onto the clean floor. He stopped with his hand on the stairwell door and looked
back over his shoulder at us, reluctant to proceed without Kenkle.
      'I elect to go with mirthful,' Kenkle said, giving my shoulder a little squeeze as he stepped past. I heard him saying different
things to the heads in the doorways all the way down the hall.
      'Jesus,' I said. Socks or no, I went forward into the really wet mopped area and tried to make out my face's expression in the
east window. It was now too light, though, outside, off all the snow. I looked sketchy and faint to myself, tentative and ghostly
against all that blazing white.