     30 APRIL / 1 MAY YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     Marathe did not quite sleep. They had remained on the shelf for some hours. He thought it a bit of much that Steeply refused
even for a brief time to sit down upon the ground. If his persona's skirt rode up above his weapon, what was the difference? Were
grotesque and humiliating undergarments also involved? Marathe's wife had been in an irreversible coma for fourteen months.
Marathe was able to refresh himself without quite sleeping. It was not a state of fugue or neural relaxation, but a type of detach-
ment. He had learned this in the months after losing his legs to a U.S.A. train. Part of Marathe floated off and hovered somewhere
just above him, crossing its legs, nibbling at his consciousness as does a spectator at popcorn.
     At some times on the outcropping Steeply went farther than crossing his arms, almost embracing himself, chilled but
unwilling to comment on the chill. Marathe noted that the gesture of self-embrace appeared convincingly feminine and
unconscious. Steeply's preparations for his returning field-assignment had been disciplined and effective. The feature of complete
un-swallowability about M. Steeply as a U.S.A. female journalist -- even a massive and unfortunate-looking U.S.A. female
journalist -- was his feet. These were broad and yellow-nailed, hairy and trollesque, the ugliest feet Marathe had observed
anywhere south of 60° N, and the ugliest supposedly female feet of his experience.
     Both men were strangely reluctant, somehow, to broach the subject of plans for getting down off the shelf in the utter dark.
Steeply didn't even waste time wondering how Marathe could have gotten up (or down) there in the first place, short of some sort
of helicopter drop, which capricious winds and the proximity of the mountainside made unlikely. The dogma around Unspecified
Services was that if Les Assassins des Fauteuils Rollents had one Achilles' heel it was their penchant for showing off, making a
spectacle of denying any kind of physical limitation, etc. Steeply had field-interfaced with Rémy Marathe once on a rickety-
feeling Louisiana oil platform 50-plus clicks out of Caillou Bay, covered the whole time by armed Cajun sympathizers. Marathe
always disguised the boggling size of his arms under a long-sleeved windbreaker. His eyelids were half-closed whenever Steeply
turned to look. If he (Marathe) were a cat he would be purring. One hand stayed below the blanket at all times, Steeply noted.
Steeply himself had a small and unregistered Taurus PT9 taped to his shaved inner thigh, which was the main reason he was
reluctant to sit down on the outcrop-ping's stone; the weapon was unsafetied.
     In the faint lume- and starlight Marathe found the four-limbed American's high-heeled feet compellingly grotesque, like
loaves of soft processed U.S.A. bread being slowly squeezed and mangled by the footwear's straps. The meaty compression of the
toes at the shoes' open tips, the leather faintly creaking as he bobbed up and down, hugging himself chillily in the sleeveless
summer dress, his fleshy bare arms webbed redly with mottle in the chill, one arm luridly scratched. The received wisdom among
Québecois anti-O.N.A.N. cells was that there was something latent and sadistic in the Bureau des Services sans Spécificité's
assignments of fictional personae for its field-operatives -- casting men as women, women as longshoremen or Orthodox
rabbinicals, heterosexual men as homosexual men, Caucasians as Negroes or caricaturesque Haitians and Dominicans, healthy
males as degenerative-nerve-disease-sufferers, healthy women operatives as hydro-cephalic boys or epileptic public-relations
executives, nondeformed U.S.O.U.S. personnel made not only to pretend but sometimes to actually suffer actual deformity, all for
the realism of their field-personae. Steeply, silent, rose and fell absently on the toes of these feet. The feet were also visibly
unused to high U.S.A. women's heels, for they were mangled-looking, deprived of flowing blood and abundantly blistered, and the
smallest toes' nails were blackening and preparing, Marathe noted, in the future to fall off.
     But Marathe knew also that something within the real M. Hugh Steeply did need the humiliations of his absurd field-
personae, that the more grotesque or unconvincing he seemed likely to be as a disguised persona the more nourished and
actualized his deep parts felt in the course of preparation for the humiliating attempt to portray; he (Steeply) used the mortification
he felt as a huge woman or pale Negro or palsied twit of a degenerative musician as fuel for the assignments' performance; Steeply
welcomed the subsumption of his dignity and self in the very role that offended his dignity of self .. . the psychomechanics
became too confusing for Marathe, who had not the capacity for abstractions of his A.F.R. superiors Fortier and Broullîme. But he
knew this was why Steeply was one of Services sans Spéci-ficité's finest field-operatives, once spending the better part of a year in
magenta robes, sleeping three hours nightly and allowing his large head to be shaved and teeth removed, shaking a tambourine in
airports and selling plastic flowers on median strips to infiltrate a cult-fronted 3-amino-8-hydroxytetralin<footnote>169</footnote> -import ring in the
U.S.A. city Seattle.
     Steeply said 'Because this is the thing about the A.F.R. that really gives them the fantods, if you're talking about fear and what
to fear.' He spoke either quietly or not, that Marathe could determine. The empty expanse they both faced off the shelf sucked all
resonance, causing every sound to sound self-enclosed and every utterance to seem flatly soft and somehow overintimate, almost
post-coital. The sounds of things said beneath blankets, winter beating at the log walls. Steeply himself appeared frightened,
perhaps, or confused. He continued: 'This disinterest, by you guys, it seems, in anything but the harm itself. Just getting the
Entertainment out there to hurt us.'
     The naked aggression by us.'
     Muscles beneath the nylons of the calves bulged and receded as Steeply bobbed. 'The boys in Behavioral Science say they
can't see any sort of positive political goal the A.F.R. even wants. Anything DuPlessis was having your Fortier work toward.'
     'The U.S.A. fantods are meaning fear, confusion, standing hair.'
     The F.L.Q. and Montcalmists -- shit, even the most whacked out of Alberta's ultra-rightists --'
     M. DuPlessis had once studied beneath radical Edmonton Jesuits, Marathe reflected.
     '-- them we can begin to understand, as political bodies. Them we can more or less get a feel for dealing with.'
     Their aggression is clothed in agenda, the Bureau of you perceives.'
     Steeply's was a thinking face now, in apparent puzzlement. They at least have aims. Real desires.'
     'For themselves.'
     Steeply appeared convincingly to ruminate. 'It's like there's a context for the whole game, then, with them. We know where
where we stand differs from where they stand. There's a sort of playing field of context.'
     Causing the chair to squeak, Marathe again rotated two fingers of a hand in the air, which for Québecers signifies impatience.
'Rules of play. Rules of engagement.' The other hand was with the Sterling UL machine pistol beneath the blanket.
     'Even historically -- the 60s bomb-tossers, the Spic Separatists, the Ragheads --'
     'Very charming. These are attractive terms.'
     'Ragheads, Colombians, Brazilians -- they had positive objectives.'
     'Desires for self which you could understand.'
     'Even if the objectives were nothing more than things we could file, pin to the board under "STATED OBJECTIVES" -- the
pathetic Spies. They wanted certain things. There was a context. A compass for maneuvers against them.'
     'Your guardians of National Security could understand these positive desires of self-interest. Look at them and "relate" as one
says, at least. Knowing where you stand on the field of play.'
     Steeply slowly nodded, as if to only himself. 'There wasn't just pure malice. There was never the sense that here were some
people who had just all of a sudden let the air out of your tires for no reason.'
     'You allege we disperse our resources deflating automobile tires?'
     'A figure of speech. Or for example a serial killer. A sadist. Somebody who wants you down just for the deviant sake of
wanting you down. A deviant.'
     Far south, a blinking system of tri-colored lights described a spiral over the airport's tower's pulsing tip -- this was a landing
aircraft.
     Steeply lit another cigarette off the butt of his previous and then tossed the butt, peering over the shelf's edge to watch its
spiralled fall. Marathe was looking up and right. Steeply said:
     'Because politics are one thing. Even way-out-far-in-the-distance fringe politics are one thing. Your Fortier doesn't seem to
care much about Reconfiguration, territory, redemisement, cartography, tariffs, Finlandization, O.N.A.N.ite Anschluss or toxic-
waste displacement.'
     'Experialism.'
     Steeply said 'Or so-called Experialism. Even Separatism. None of the other cells' agendas seem to drive you people. Most of
the Office sees it as just sheer malice with you. No agenda or story.'
     'And for you there is something appalling.'
     Steeply pursed his lips, as if trying to blow something off them. 'But when there are delineatable strategic political goals and
objectives. When there's some set of ends we can make sense of the malice with. Then it's just business.'
     'Nothing of persons.' Marathe was looking up. Some of the stars seemed to flutter, others to burn with more steadiness.
     'We know which end is up when it's business. We've got a field and a compass.' He regarded Marathe directly in a way that
was not accusing. 'This seems personal,' he said.
     Marathe could not think of descriptions for the way Steeply regarded him. Neither was it sad nor inquisitive nor quite
ruminative. There were small flickers and shadows of movements around the flickers of the celebratory fire down far away on the
floor of the desert. Marathe could not determine whether Steeply was truly revealing emotions about himself. The flickers
continually went out. Small shreds of young laughter drifted up to them in the vacuous silence. There were also sometimes rustles
in the hillside's scrub, of gravel or small living nightly things. Or whether perhaps Steeply was trying to give him something, let
him know something and determine whether it went back to M. Fortier. Marathe's arrangement with the Office of Unspecified
Services seemed most often to consist in submitting himself to numerous tests and games of truth and betrayal. He felt often with
U.S.O.U.S. like a caged rodent being regarded blandly by bland men in white coats.
     Marathe shrugged. 'U.S.A. has previously been hated. Richly so. Shining Path and your Maxwell House company. The trans-
Latin cocaine cartels and the poor late M. Kemp with his exploding home. Did not both Iraq and Iran call U.S.A. the Very Large
Satan? As you hatefully say they have Heads of Rags?'
     Steeply exhumed smoke quickly to reply. 'Yes but there were still contexts and ends. Revenue, religion, spheres of influence,
Israel, petroleum, neo-Marxism, post-Cold-War power-jockeying. There was always a third thing.'
     'Some desire.'
     'Some piece of business. Some third thing between them and us -- it wasn't just us -- it was something they wanted from us,
or wanted us out of.' Steeply seemed earnestly to say it. The third thing, the goal or desire -- it mediated the ill will, abstracted it
somehow.'
     'For this is how one who is sane proceeds,' Marathe said, paying great concentration to aligning the blanket's hems against his
chest and wheels; 'some desire of self, and efforts expending to meet that desire.'
     'Not just wanting negatives,' Steeply said, shaking the lurid head. 'Not just wanting some other's harm for no purpose.'
     Marathe again found himself pretending to sniff with the congestion. 'And a U.S.A. purpose, desires?' This he asked quietly;
its sound was strange against stone.
     Steeply was pinching yet a next particle of tobacco from his lipstick. He said This you can't generalize on with most of us,
since our whole system is founded on your individual's freedom to pursue his own individual desires.' His mascara had now
cooled in the formations of its past running. Marathe kept silent and fussed with the blanket as Steeply sometimes regarded him. A
whole minute passed this way. Finally Steeply said:
     'Me, for me personally, as an American, Rémy, if you're really serious, I think it's probably your standard old basic American
dreams and ideals. Freedom from tyranny, from excessive want, fear, censorship of speech and thought.' He was looking with
seriousness, even in this wig. 'The old ones, tested by time. Relative plenty, meaningful work, adequate leisure-time. The ones you
might call corny.' His smiling revealed to Marathe lipstick upon one incisor. 'We want choice. A sense of efficaciousness and
choice. To be loved by someone. To freely love who you happen to love. To be loved irregardless of whether you can tell them
Classified stuff about your job. To have them just trust you and trust that you know what you're doing. To feel valued. Not to be
agendalessly despised. To have good neighborly relations. Cheap and abundant energy. Pride in your work and family, and home.'
The lipstick had been smeared onto the tooth when the finger had removed the grain of tobacco. He was 'faisait monter la
pression': <footnote>170</footnote> 'The little things. Access to transport. Good digestion. Work-saving appliances. A wife who doesn't mistake your
job's requirements for your own fetishes. Reliable waste-removal and disposal. Sunsets over the Pacific. Shoes that don't cut off
circulation. Frozen yogurt. A tall lemonade on a squeak-free porch swing.'
     Marathe's face, it showed nothing. 'The loyalty of a domestic pet.'
     Steeply pointed the cigarette. 'There you go, friend.'
     'High-quality entertainment. High value for the dollar of leisure and spectation.'
     Steeply laughed agreeably, exhaling a shaped sausage of smoke. In response to this, Marathe smiled. There was some silence
for thinking until Marathe finally said, looking up and off to think: 'This U.S.A. type of person and desires appears to me like
almost the classic, how do you say, uti-litaire.'
     'A French appliance?'
     'Comme on dit,' Marathe said, 'utilitarienne. Maximize pleasure, minimize displeasure: result: what is good. This is the U.S.A.
of you.'
     Steeply pronounced the U.S.A. English word for Marathe, then. Then a sustained pause. Steeply rose and fell upon his toes. A
bonfire of young persons was burning some k. down away on the desert floor, the flames burning in a seeming ring instead of a
sphere.
     Marathe said 'But yes, but precisely whose pleasure and whose pain, in this personality type's equation of what is good?'
     When Steeply removed a particle of the cigarette from the lip he would then roll it absently between his first finger and
thumb; this did not appear womanly. 'Come again?'
     Mara the scratched inside the wind breaker. 'I am wondering, me, in the equations of this U.S.A. type: the best good is each
individual U.S.A. person's maximum pleasure? or it is the maximum pleasure for all the people?'
     Steeply nodded in a way that indicated willing patience with someone whose wits were not too speedy. 'But there you go, but
this question itself shows how our different types of national character part ways from each other, Rémy. The American genius,
our good fortune is that someplace along the line back there in American history them realizing that each American seeking to
pursue his maximum good results together in maximizing everyone's good.'
     'Ah.'
     'We learn this as early as grade school, as kids.'
     'I am seeing.'
     'This is what lets us steer free of oppression and tyranny. Even your Greekly democratic howling-mob-type tyranny. The
United States: a community of sacred individuals which reveres the sacredness of the individual choice. The individual's right to
pursue his own vision of the best ratio of pleasure to pain: utterly sacrosanct. Defended with teeth and bared claws all through our
history.'
     'Bien sûr.'
     Steeply for the first time seemed to be feeling with his hand his wig's disorder. He was attempting to straightly reposition it
without removing the wig. Marathe tried not to envision what his B.S.S. had done to the natural brown male hair of Steeply, to
accommodate the complex wig. Steeply said: 'It might be hard for you to quite understand what's so precious about this for us,
from across this chasm of different values that separates our peoples.'
     Marathe flexed his hand. 'Perhaps because it is so general and abstracted. In practice, however, you may force me to
understand.'
     'We don't force. It's exactly about not-forcing, our history's genius. You are entitled to your values of maximum pleasure. So
long as you don't fuck with mine. Are you seeing?'
     'Perhaps help me see by practical evidence. An instance. Suppose you are able at one moment to increase your own pleasure,
but the cost of this is the displeasuring pain of another? Another sacred individual's displeasing pain.'
     Steeply said: 'Well now this is precisely what gives us the fantods about the A.F.R., why it's so important I think to remember
how we come from different cultures and value systems, Rémy. Because in our U.S. value system, anybody who derives an
increase in pleasure from somebody else's pain is a deviant, a sadistic sicko, and is thereby excluded from the community of
everybody's right to pursue their own best pleasure-to-pain ratio.
     Sickos deserve compassion and the best treatment feasible. But they're not part of the big picture.'
     Marathe willed himself not to rise on his stumps again. 'No, but not another's pain as a pleasurable end in itself. I did not
mean where my pleasure is in your pain. How to say better. Imagine there arises a situation in which your deprivation or pain is
merely the consequence, the price, of my own pleasure.'
     'You mean you're talking a tough-choices, limited-resources-type situation.'
     'But in the simplest of examples. The most child-like case.' Marathe's eyes momentarily gleamed with enthusiasm. 'Suppose
that you and I, we both wish to enjoy a hot bowl of the Habitant soupe aux pois.'
     Steeply said 'You mean. . .'
     'But yes. French-Canadian-type pea soup. Produit du Montreal. Saveur Maison. Prête a Servir.' <footnote>171</footnote>
     'What is it with you people and this stuff?'
     'In this case imagining both you and I are in the worst way craving for Habitant Soup. But there is one can only, of the small
and well-known Single-Serving Size.'
     'An American invention, by the way, the 3-S, let's insert.'
     The part of Marathe's mind that hovered above and watched coldly, it could not know whether Steeply was being deliberately
parodically dense and annoying, to arouse Marathe to some revealing passion. Marathe made his rotary gesture of impatience,
slowly. 'But OK,' he said neutrally. 'It is simple here. We both want the soup. So me, my pleasure from eating the Habitant soupe
aux pois has the price of your pain at not eating soup when you badly crave it.' Marathe was patting his pockets for something.
'And the reverse, if you are who eats this serving. By the U.S.A. genius of for each "pursuivre le bonheur," <footnote>172</footnote> then, who can
decide who may receive this soup?'
     Steeply stood with weight on one leg. 'Example's a bit oversimplified. We bid on the soup, maybe. We negotiate. Maybe we
divide the soup.'
     'No, for the ingenious Single-Serving Size of serving is notoriously for only one, and we are both large and vigorous U.S.A.
individuals who have spent the afternoon watching huge men in pads and helmets hurl themselves at one another in the High
Definition of InterLace, and we are both ravenous for the satiation of a complete hot bowl's serving. Half the bowl would only
torment this craving I have.'
     The fast shadow of pain across the face of Steeply showed Marathe's choice of example was witty: the divorced U.S.A. man
has much experience with the small size of Single-Serving products. Marathe said:
     'OK. OK, yes, why should I, as the sacred individual, give you half of my soup? My own pleasure over torment is what is
good, for I am a loyal U.S.A., a genius of this individual desire.'
     The bonfire slowly was filling out. Another cross of colored lights circled the airport area of Tucson. Steeply's movements of
smoothing the wig and twisting fingers through the snarls of hair became perhaps more abrupt and frustrated. Steeply said 'Well
whose soup is it legally? Who actually bought the soup?'
     Marathe shrugged. 'Not relevant for my question. Suppose a third party, now unfortunately deceased. He appears at our flat
with a can oísoupe aux pots to eat while watching recorded U.S.A. sporting and suddenly is clutching his heart and falls to the
carpeting deceased, holding the soup we are now both so wishing.'
     'Then we bid on the soup. Whoever's got the most desire for the soup and is willing to fork over the higher price buys out the
other's half, then the other just jogs on down -- jogs or rolls on down to Safeway and buys himself some more soup. Whoever's
willing to put his money where his hunger is gets the dead guy's soup.'
     Marathe shook his head without any heat. 'The Safeway store and bidding, these are also not relevant to my question I hope
the example of pea soup to raise. Which perhaps this is a dull-witted question.'
     Steeply was at the wig with both hands, for repair. Former perspiration had mashed its form inward on one side, as well as
small clots and small burrs from the falls of his descent to the outcropping. Presumably there was no comb or brushes in his small
evening's-wear purse. The rear of his dress was dirty. The straps of his prostheses' brassiere dug cruelly into the meat of his back
and shoulders. Again there was for Marathe the picture of something soft being slowly throttled.
     Steeply was responding 'No, I know what you want to raise all right. You want to talk politics. Scarcity and allocating and
tough choices. All right. Politics we can understand. All right. Politics we can discuss. I bet I know where you're -- you want to
raise the question of what prevents 310 million individual American happiness-pursuers from all going around bonking each other
over the head and taking each other's soup. A state of nature. My own pleasure and to hell with all the rest.'
     Marathe had his handkerchief out. 'What does this wish to mean, this bonking?'
     'Because this simplistic example shows just how far apart across the chasm our people's values are, friend.' Steeply was
saying this. 'Because a certain basic amount of respect for the wishes of other people is required, is in my interest, in order to
preserve a community where my own wishes and interests are respected. OK? My total and overall happiness is maximized by
respecting your individual sanctity and not simply kicking you in the knee and running off with the soup.' Steeply watched
Marathe blow one nostril into the handkerchief. Marathe was one of the rare types who did not examine the hankie after he blew.
Steeply said:
     'And but then I can anticipate somebody on your side of the chasm retorting with something like, quote, Yes my very good
ami, but what if your rival for the pleasurable soup is some individual outside your community, for example, you'll say, let's just
make the example that it a hapless Canadian, foreign, "mm autre," separated from me by a chasm of history and language and
value and deep respect for individual freedom -- then in this wholly random instance there would be no community-minded
constraints on my natural impulse to bonk your head and commandeer the desired soup, since the poor Canadian is outside the
equation of "pursuivre le bonheur" of each individual, since he is not a part of the community whose environment of mutual
respect I depend on for pursuing my interest of maximal pleasure-to-pain.'
     Marathe, during this time, was smiling up and to the left, north, rolling his head like a blind person. His favorite personal
place of off-duty in the U.S.A.'s city Boston was in the Public Garden of summer, a broad and treeless declivity leading down to
the mare des canards, the duck pond, a grassy wedge facing south and west so that the grass of the slope turns pale green and then
gold as the sun circles over the head, the pond's water cool and muddy green and overhung with impressionist willows, persons
beneath the willows, also pigeons, and ducks with tight emerald heads gliding in circles, their eyes round stones, moving as if
without effort, gliding upon the water as if legless below. Like films' idylls in cities the moment before the nuclear blast, in old
films of U.S.A. death and horror. He was missing this time in U.S.A. Boston MA of refilling the pond for the ducks' return, the
willows greening, the winelight of a northern sunset curving gently in to land without explosion. Children flew taut kites and
adults lay supine on the slope absorbing the suntan, eyes closed as if in concentration. He was giving out a small and desolate
smile, as of fatigue. His wrist's watch was unilluminated. Steeply threw a butt without turning away from Marathe to watch it fall.
     'And you'll accuse me of you'll say I won't only poke him in the eye and commandeer the whole serving of soup for myself,'
Steeply said, 'but will, after eating it, I'll give him the dirty bowl and spoon and maybe even the no-deposit Habitant can to have to
deal with, saddle him with my greed's waste, all under some sham-arrangement of quote Interdependence that's really just a crude
nationalist scheme to indulge my own U.S. individual pleasure-lust without the complications or annoyance of considering some
neighbor's own desires and interests.'
     Marathe said 'You will notice that I do not with sarcasm say "And herrrrrrrrrre we go off together once more," which you
enjoy saying.'
     Steeply's use of the body to shelter the lighting match for his smoking was not feminine, either. His parody of Marathe's
accent sounded guttural and U.S.A.-Cajun with the cigarette in the mouth. He looked up past the flame. 'But no? Am I off-base?'
     Marathe had an almost Buddhist way of studying the blanket on his lap.
     For some seconds he behaved as if almost asleep, nodding very smally with the rise and fall of his lungs. The ponderous
rectangles of moving light within Tucson's nightly spread were 'Barges of Land' ministering to nests of dump-sters in the deep part
of night. Part of Marathe always felt almost a desire to shoot persons who anticipated his responses and inserted words and said
they were from Marathe, not letting him speak. Marathe suspected Steeply of knowing this, sensing this in Marathe. All two of
Marathe's older brothers from childhood had engaged in this, arguing every side and silencing Rémy by inserting his words. Both
had kissed trains head-on before reaching marriageable age; <footnote>173</footnote> Marathe had been part of the audience for the death of the
better one. Some of the Barges of Land's waste would be vectored into the Sonora region of Mexico, but much would be shipped
north for displacement-launch into the Convexity. Steeply was regarding him.
     'No, Rémy? Am I off-base in terms of what you'd say?'
     The smile around Marathe's mouth cost him all his training in restraint. 'The cans containing Habitant, they say boldly
"Veuillez Recycler Ce Conte-nant." You are not false, maybe. But I think I am asking less for nations' arguing and more for the
example of you and me only, we two, if we pretend we are both of your U.S.A. type, each separate, both sacred, both desiring
soupe aux pots. I am asking how is community and your respect part of my happiness in this moment, with the soup, if I am a
U.S.A. person?'
     Steeply worked a finger under one strap of the brassiere to relieve the throttling pressure. T don't get you.'
     'Well. We both crave badly the entire recyclable Single-Serving can of this Habitant.' Marathe sniffed. Tn my mind I know it
is true that I must not simply make a bonking of your head and take away the soup, because my overall happiness of pleasure of
the long term needs a community of "rien de bonk." <footnote>174</footnote> But this is the long term, Steeply. This is down the road of my
happiness, this respecting of you. How do I calculate this distant road of long term into my action of this moment, now, with our
dead comrade clutching the soup and both of us with spittle on our chins as we regard the soup? My question is trying to say: if
the most pleasure right now, en ce moment, is in the whole serving of Habitant, how is my self able to put aside this moment's
desire to make bonk on you and take this soup? How am I able to think past this soup to the future of soup down my road?'
     Tn other words delayed gratification.'
     'Good. This is well. Delayed gratification. How is my U.S.A. type able in my mind to calculate my long-term overall
pleasure, then decide to sacrifice this intense soup-craving of this moment to the long term and overall?'
     Steeply sent out two hard tusks of smoke from the nostrils of his nose. His expression was one of patience together with polite
impatience. T think it's called simply being a mature and adult American instead of a childish and immature American. A term we
might use might be "enlightened self-interest."
     'D'éclaisant.'
     Steeply, he did not smile back. 'Enlightened. For example your example from before. The little kid who'll eat candy all day
because it's what tastes best at each individual moment.'
     'Even if he knows inside his mind that it will hurt his stomach and rot his little fangs.'
     'Teeth,' Steeply corrected. 'But see that here it can't be a Fascist matter of screaming at the kid or giving him electric shocks
each time he overindulges in candy. You can't induce a moral sensibility the same way you'd train a rat. The kid has to learn by his
own experience how to learn to balance the short- and long-term pursuit of what he wants.'
     'He must be freely enlightened to self.'
     'This is the crux of the educational system you find so appalling. Not to teach what to desire. To teach how to be free. To
teach how to make knowledgeable choices about pleasure and delay and the kid's overall down-the-road maximal interests.'
     Marathe farted mildly into his cushion, nodding as if with thought.
      'And I know what you'll say,' Steeply said, 'and no, the system isn't perfect. There is greed, there is crime, there are drugs and
cruelty and ruin and infidelity and divorce and suicide. Murder.'
      'To bonk the head.'
      Steeply again dug at this strap. He would snap open the purse and then pause to move the brassiere's tight strap and then dig
into the purse, which sounded femininely full and cluttered. He said 'But this is just the price. This is the price of the free pursuit.
Not everybody learns it in childhood, how to balance his interests.'
      Marathe tried to envision thin men with horn-rim spectacles and natural-shoulder sportcoats or white coats of the laboratory,
carefully packing with clutter the purse of a field-operative to create the female effect. Now Steeply had his pack of Flanderfumes
cigarettes and his finger of pinkie in the pack's hole, evidently trying to gauge how many were left. Venus was low in the
northeast rim. When Marathe's wife was born as an infant without a skull, there had been at first suspicion that the cause was that
her parents smoked cigarettes as a habit. The light of the stars and moon had become sullen. The moon had not yet set. It seemed
as if sometimes the bonfire of youthful mafficking was there and then when the eyes were averted in the next moment it was not
there. Time was passing in a silence. Steeply was using a nail to extract slowly one of the cigarettes. Marathe, as a small child and
with legs, had always disliked persons who made comments about how much others smoked. Steeply now had learned here just
how he must stand to keep the match alive. Some wind had died down, but there were scattered chill gusts that it seemed came
from nowhere. Marathe sniffed so deeply that it became a sigh. The struck match sounded loud; there was no echo.
      Marathe sniffed again and said:
      'But of these types of your persons -- the different types, the mature who see down the road, the puerile type that eats the
candy and soup in the moment only. Entre nous, here on this shelf, Hugh Steeply: which do you think describes the U.S.A. of
O.N.A.N. and the Great Convexity, this U.S.A. you feel pain that others might wish to harm?' Hands which shake out matches act
always as if they are burned, this motion of snapping. Marathe sniffed. 'Are you understanding? I am asking between only us.
How could it be that A.F.R. malice could hurt all of the U.S.A. culture by making available something as momentary and free as
the choice to view only this one Entertainment? You know there can be no forcing to watch a thing. If we disseminate the
samizdat, the choice will be free, no? Free from force, no? Yes? Freely chosen?'
      M. Hugh Steeply of B.S.S. was standing then with his weight on one hip and looked his most female when he smoked, with
his elbow in his arm and the hand to his mouth and the back of this hand to Marathe, a type of fussy ennui that reminded Marathe
of women in hats and padded shoulders in black-and-white films, smoking. Marathe said:
      'You believe we are underestimating to see all you as selfish, decadent. But the question has been raised: are we cells of
Canada alone in this view? Aren't you afraid, you of your government and gendarmes? If not, your B.S.S., why work so hard to
prevent dissemination? Why make a simple Entertainment, no matter how seducing its pleasures, a samizdat and forbidden in the
first place, if you do not fear so many U.S.A.s cannot make the enlightened choices?'
      This now was the closest large Steeply had come, to stand over Marathe to look down, looming. The rising astral body Venus
lit his left side of the face to the color of pallid cheese. 'Get real. The Entertainment isn't candy or beer. Look at Boston just now.
You can't compare this kind of insidious enslaving process to your little cases of sugar and soup.'
      Marathe smiled bleakly into the chiaroscuro flesh of this round and hairless U.S.A. face. 'Perhaps the facts are true, after the
first watching: that then there seems to be no choice. But to decide to be this pleasurably entertained in the first place. This is still
a choice, no? Sacred to the viewing self, and free? No? Yes?'