     They returned from Long Island bearing their shields rather than upon them, as they say. John Wayne and Hal Incandenza lost
only five total games between them in singles. The A doubles had resembled a spatterpainting. And the B teams, especially the
distaffs, had surpassed themselves. The whole P.W.T.A. staff and squad had had to sing a really silly song. Coyle and Troeltsch
didn't win, and Teddy Schacht had, incredibly, lost to his squat spin-doctory opponent in three sets, despite the kid's debilitating
nerves at crucial junctures. The fact that Schacht wasn't all that upset got remarked on by staff. Schacht and a conspicuously
energized Jim Troeltsch rallied for the big win in 18-A #2 dubs, though. Troeltsch's disconnected microphone mysteriously
disappeared from his gear bag during post-doubles showers, to the rejoicing of all. Pemulis's storky intense two-hands-off-both-
sides opponent had gotten weirdly lethargic and then disoriented in the second set after Pemulis had lost the first in a tie-break.
After the kid had delayed play for several minutes claiming the tennis balls were too pretty to hit, P.W.T.A. trainers had conducted
him gently from the court, and the Peemster got 'V.D.,' which is jr.-circuit argot for a Victory by Default. The fact that Pemulis
hadn't walked around with his chest out recounting the win for any E.T.A. females got remarked on only by Hal and T. Axford.
Schacht was in too much knee-pain to remark on much of anything, and Schtitt had E.T.A.'s Barry Loach inject the big purple
knee with something that made Schacht's eyes roll up in his head.
     Then during the post-meet mixer and dance Pemulis's defaulted opponent ate from the hors d' oeuvres table without using
utensils or at one point even hands, did a disco number when there wasn't any music going, and was finally heard telling the Port
Washington Headmaster's wife that he'd always wanted to do her from behind. Pemulis spent a lot of time whistling and staring
innocently up at the pre-fab ceiling.
     The bus for all the 18's squads was warm and there were little nozzles of light over your seat that you could either have on to
do homework or shut off and sleep. Troeltsch, left eye ominously nystagmic, pretended to recap the day's match highlights for a
subscription audience, speaking earnestly into his fist. The C team's Stockhausen was pretending to sing opera. Hal and Tall Paul
Shaw were each reading an SAT prep-guide. A good quarter of the bus was yellow-highlighting copies of E. A. Abbott's
inescapable-at-E.T.A. book Flatland for either Flottman or Chawaf or Thorp. An elongated darkness with assorted shapes melted
by, plus long gauntlets, near exits, of tall Interstatish lamps laying down cones of dirty-looking sodium light. The ghastly sodium
lamplight made Mario Incandenza happy to be in his little cone of white inside light. Mario sat next to K. D. Coyle -- who was
kind of mentally slow, especially after a hard loss -- and they played rock-paper-scissors for two hundred clicks or more, not
saying anything, engrossed in trying to locate patterns in each other's rhythms of choices of shapes, which they both decided there
weren't any. Two or three upper-classmen in Levy-Richardson-O'Byrne-Chawaf's Disciplinary Lit. were slumped over
Goncharov's Oblomov, looking very unhappy indeed. Charles Tavis sat way in the back with John Wayne and beamed and spoke
nonstop in hushed tones to Wayne as the Canadian stared out the window. DeLint was with the 16's one bus back; he'd been
ragging Slice's and Korn-span's asses since their doubles, which it looked like they practically gave away. The bus was Schtittless:
Schtitt always found a private mysterious way back, then appeared at dawn drills with deLint and elaborate work-ups of
everything that had gone wrong the day before. He was particularly shrill and insistent and negative after they'd won something.
Schacht sat listing to port and didn't respond when hands were waved in front of his face, and Axford and Struck started kibitzing
Barry Loach about their knees were feeling punk as well. The luggage rack over everyone's heads bristled with grips and coverless
strings, and liniment and tincture of benzoin had been handed out and liberally applied, so the warm air became complexly spiced.
Everybody was tired in a good way.
     The homeward ride's camaraderie was marred only by the fact that someone near the back of the bus started the passing
around of a Gothic-fonted leaflet offering the kingdom of prehistoric England to the man who could pull Keith Freer out of
Bernadette Longley. Freer had been discovered by prorector Mary Esther Thode more or less Xing poor Bernadette Longley under
an Adidas blanket in the very back seat on the bus trip to the East Coast Clays in Providence in September, and it had been a nasty
scene, because there were some basic Academy-license rules that it was just unacceptable to flout under the nose of staff. Keith
Freer was deeply asleep when the leaflet was getting passed around, but Bernadette Longley wasn't, and when the leaflet hit the
front half where all the females now had to sit since September she'd buried her face in her hands and flushed even on the back of
her pretty neck, and her doubles partner <footnote>92</footnote> came all the way back to where Jim Struck and Michael Pemulis were sitting and
told them in no uncertain terms that somebody on this bus was so immature it was really sad.
     Charles Tavis was irrepressible. He did a Pierre Trudeau impersonation no one except the driver was old enough to laugh at.
And the whole mammoth travelling squad, three buses' worth, got to stop and have the Mega-breakfast at Denny's, over next to
Empire Waste, at like 0030, when they got in.