

     30 APRIL / 1 MAY YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
     The sky of U.S.A.'s desert was clotted with blue stars. Now it was deep at night. Only above the U.S.A. city was the sky
blank of stars; its color was pearly and blank. Marathe shrugged. 'Perhaps in you is the sense that citizens of Canada are not
involved in the real root of the threat.'
     Steeply shook the head in seeming annoyance. 'What's that supposed to mean?' he said. The lurid wig of him slipped when he
moved the head with any abrupt force.
     The first way Marathe betrayed anything of emotion was to smooth rather too fussily at the blanket on his lap. 'It is meaning
that it will not of finality be Québecers making this kick to I'aìne des Etats Urn's. Look: the facts of the situation speak loudly.
What is known. This is a U.S.A. production, this Entertainment cartridge. Made by an American man in the U.S.A. The appetite
for the appeal of it: this also is U.S.A. The U.S.A. drive for spectation, which your culture teaches. This I was saying: this is why
choosing is everything. When I say to you choose with great care in loving and you make ridicule it is why I look and say: can I
believe this man is saying this thing of ridicule?' Marathe leaned slightly forward on his stumps, leaving the machine pistol to use
both his hands in saying. Steeply could tell this was important to Marathe; he really believed it.
     Marathe made small emphatic circles and cuts in the air while he spoke: 'These facts of situation, which speak so loudly of
your Bureau's fear of this samizdat: now is what has happened when a people choose nothing over themselves to love, each one. A
U.S.A. that would die -- and let its children die, each one -- for the so-called perfect Entertainment, this film. Who would die for
this chance to be fed this death of pleasure with spoons, in their warm homes, alone, unmoving: Hugh Steeply, in complete
seriousness as a citizen of your neighbor I say to you: forget for a moment the Entertainment, and think instead about a U.S.A.
where such a thing could be possible enough for your Office to fear: can such a U.S.A. hope to survive for a much longer time?
To survive as a nation of peoples? To much less exercise dominion over other nations of other peoples? If these are other peoples
who still know what it is to choose? who will die for something larger? who will sacrifice the warm home, the loved woman at
home, their legs, their life even, for something more than their own wishes of sentiment? who would choose not to die for
pleasure, alone?'
     Steeply removed with cool deliberation another Belgian cigarette and lit it, this time on the first match. Waving the match out
with a circular flourish and snap. All this took time of his silence. Marathe settled back. Marathe wondered why the presence of
Americans could always make him feel vaguely ashamed after saying things he believed. An aftertaste of shame after revealing
passion of any belief and type when with Americans, as if he had made flatulence instead of had revealed belief.
     Steeply rested his one elbow on the forearm of the other arm across his prostheses, to smoke like a woman: 'You're saying
that the administration wouldn't even be concerned about the Entertainment if we didn't know we were fatally weak. As in as a
nation. You're saying the fact that we're worried speaks volumes about the nation itself.'
     Marathe shrugged. 'Us, we will force nothing on U.S.A. persons in their warm homes. We will make only available.
Entertainment. There will be then some choosing, to partake or choose not to.' Smoothing slightly at his lap's blanket. 'How will
U.S.A.s choose? Who has taught them to choose with care? How will your Offices and Agencies protect them, your people?
     By laws? By killing Québecois?' Marathe rose, but very slightly. 'As you were killing Colombians and Bolivians to protect
U.S.A. citizens who desire their narcotics? How well did this work for your Agencies and Offices, the killing? How long was it
before the Brazilians replaced the dead of Colombia?'
     Steeply's wig had slipped hard to starboard. 'Rémy, no. Drug-dealers don't want you dead, necessarily; they just want your
money. There's a difference. You people seem to want us dead. Not just the Concavity re-demised. Not just secession for Quebec.
The F.L.Q., maybe they're like the Bolivians. But Fortier wants us dead.'
     'Again you pass over what is important. Why B.S.S. cannot understand us. You cannot kill what is already dead.'
     'Just you wait and see if we're dead, paisano.'
     Marathe made a gesture as if striking his own head. 'Again passing over the important. This appetite to choose death by
pleasure if it is available to choose -- this appetite of your people unable to choose appetites, this is the death. What you call the
death, the collapsing: this will be the formality only. Do you not see? This was the genius of Guillaume DuPlessis, what M.
DuPlessis taught the cells, even if F.L.Q. and les Fils did not understand. Much less the Albertans, all crazy inside their head. We
of the A.F.R., we understand. This is why this cell of Québecers, that danger of Entertainment so fine it will kill the viewer, if so
-- the exact way does not matter. The exact time of death and way of death, this no longer matters. Not for your peoples. You
wish to protect them? But you can only delay. Not save. The Entertainment exists. The attache and gendarmes of the razzle
incident -- more proof. It is there, existing. The choice for death of the head by pleasure now exists, and your authorities know, or
you would not be now trying to stop the pleasure. Your Sans-Christe Gentle was in this one part correct: "Someone is to blame."
     'That had nothing to do with the Reconfiguration. The Reconfiguration was self-preservation.'
     'That: forget it. There is the villain he saw you needed, all of you, to delay this splitting apart. To keep you together, the
hating some other. Gentle is crazy in his head, but in this "fault of someone" he was correct in saying it. Un ennemi commun. But
not someone outside you, this enemy. Someone or some people among your own history sometime killed your U.S.A. nation
already, Hugh. Someone who had authority, or should have had authority and did not exercise authority. I do not know. But
someone sometime let you forget how to choose, and what. Someone let your peoples forget it was the only thing of importance,
choosing. So completely forgetting that when I say choose to you you make expressions with your face such as "Herrrrrre we are
going," Someone taught that temples are for fanatics only and took away the temples and promised there was no need for temples.
And now there is no shelter. And no map for finding the shelter of a temple. And you all stumble about in the dark, this confusion
of permissions. The without-end pursuit of a happiness of which someone let you forget the old things which made happiness
possible. How is it you say: "Anything is going"'?'
     'And this is why we shudder at what a separate Quebec would be like. Choose what we tell you, neglect your own wish and
desires, sacrifice. For Quebec. For the State.'
     Marathe shrugged. 'L'état protecteur.'
     Steeply said 'Does this sound a little familiar, Rémy? The National Socialist Neofascist State of Separate Quebec? You guys
are worse than the worst Albertans. Totalitarity. Cuba with snow. Ski immediately to your nearest reeducation camp, for
instructions on choosing. Moral eugenics. China. Cambodia. Chad. Unfree.'
     'Unhappy.'
     'There are no choices without personal freedom, Buckeroo. It's not us who are dead inside. These things you find so weak and
contemptible in us -- these are just the hazards of being free.'
     'But what does this U.S.A. expression want to mean, this Buckeroo?'
     Steeply turned to face away into the space they were above. 'And now here we go. Now you will say how free are we if you
dangle fatal fruit before us and we cannot help ourselves from temptation. And we say "human" to you. We say that one cannot be
human without freedom.'
     Marathe's chair squeaked slightly as his weight shifted. 'Always with you this freedom! For your walled-up country, always to
shout "Freedom! Freedom!" as if it were obvious to all people what it wants to mean, this word. But look: it is not so simple as
that. Your freedom is the freedom-from: no one tells your precious individual U.S.A. selves what they must do. It is this meaning
only, this freedom from constraint and forced duress.' Marathe over Steeply's shoulder suddenly could realize why the skies above
the coruscating city were themselves erased of stars: it was the fumes from the exhaust's wastes of the moving autos' pretty lights
that rose and hid stars from the city and made the city Tucson's lume nacreous in the dome's blankness of it. 'But what of the
freedom-tor1 Not just free-from. Not all compulsion comes from without. You pretend you do not see this. What of freedom-to.
How for the person to freely choose? How to choose any but a child's greedy choices if there is no loving-filled father to guide,
inform, teach the person how to choose? How is there freedom to choose if one does not learn how to choose?'
     Steeply threw away a cigarette and faced partly Marathe, from the edge: 'Now the story of the rich man.'
     Marathe said 'The rich father who can afford the cost of candy as well as food for his children: but if he cries out "Freedom!"
and allows his child to choose only what is sweet, eating only candy, not pea soup and bread and eggs, so his child becomes weak
and sick: is the rich man who cries "Freedom!" the good father?'
     Steeply made four small noises. Excitement of some belief made the American's electrolysis's little pimples of rash redden
even in the milky dilute light of lume and low stars. The moon over the Mountains of Rincon was on its side, its color the color of
a fat man's face. Marathe could believe he could hear some young U.S.A. voices shouting and laughing in a young gathering
somewhere out on the desert floor below, but saw no headlights or young persons. Steeply stamped a high heel in frustration.
Steeply said:
     'But U.S. citizens aren't presumed by us to be children, to pater-nalistically do their thinking and choosing for them. Human
beings are not children.'
     Marathe pretended again to sniff.
     'Ah, yes, but then you say: No?' Steeply said. 'No? you say, not children? You say: What is the difference, please, if you make
a recorded pleasure so entertaining and diverting it is lethal to persons, you find a Copy-Capable copy and copy it and disseminate
it for us to choose to see or turn off, and if we cannot choose to resist it, the pleasure, and cannot choose instead to live? You say
what your Fortier believes, that we are children, not human adults like the noble Québecers, we are children, bullies but still
children inside, and will kill ourselves for you if you put the candy within the arms' reach.'
     Marathe tried to make his face expressive of anger, which was difficult for him. 'This is what happens: you imagine the things
I will say and then say them for me and then become angry with them. Without my mouth; it never opens. You speak to yourself,
inventing sides. This itself is the habit of children: lazy, lonely, self. I am not even here, possibly, for listening to.'
     Unmentioned by either man was how in heaven's name either man expected to get up or down from the mountainside's shelf
in the dark of the U.S. desert's night.

