      9 NOVEMBER YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT
      The Enfield Tennis Academy has an accredited capacity of 148 junior players -- of whom 80 are to be male -- but an actual
Fall Y.D.A.U. population of 95 paying and 41 scholarship students, so 136, of which 72 are female, right now, for some reason,
meaning that while there's room for twelve more (preferably full-tuition) junior players, there ought ideally to be fully sixteen
more males than there are, meaning Charles Tavis and Co. are wanting to fill all twelve available spots with males -- plus they
wouldn't exactly mind, is the general scuttlebutt, if a half dozen or so of the better girls left before graduation and tried for the
Show, simply because housing more than 68 girls means putting some in the male dorms, which creates tensions and licensing-
and conservative-parent-problems, given that coed hall bathrooms are not a good idea what with all the adolescent glands firing all
over the place.
      It also means that, since there are twice as many male prorectors as female, A.M. drills have to be complexly staggered, the
boys in two sets of 32, the girls in three of 24, which creates problems in terms of early-p.M. classes for the lowest-ranked C-
squad girls, who drill last.
      Matriculations, gender quotas, recruiting, financial aid, room-assignments, mealtimes, rankings, class v. drill schedules,
prorector-hiring, accommodating changes in drill schedule consequent to a player's movement up or down a squad. It's all the sort
of thing that's uninteresting unless you're the one responsible, in which case it's cholesterol-raisingly stressful and complex. The
stress of all the complexities and priorities to be triaged and then weighted against one another gets Charles Tavis out of bed in the
Headmaster's House at an ungodly hour most mornings, his sleep-swollen face twitching with permutations. He stands in leather
slippers at the living-room window, looking southeast past West and Center Courts at the array of A-team players assembling
stiffly in the gray glow, carrying gear with their heads down and some still asleep on their feet, the first bit of snout of the sun
protruding through the city's little skyline far beyond them, the aluminum glints of river and sea, east, Tavis's hands working
nervously around the cup of hazlenut decaf that steams upward into his face as he holds it, hair unarranged and one side hanging,
high forehead up against the window's glass so he can feel the mean chill of the dawn just outside, his lips moving slightly and
without sound, the thing it's not entirely impossible he may have fathered asleep up next to the sound system with its claws on its
chest and four pillows for bradypnea-afflicted breathing that sounds like soft repetitions of the words sky or ski, making no
unnecessary sound, not eager to wake it and have to interface with it and have it look up at him with a terrible calm and accepting
knowledge it's quite possible is nothing but Tavis's imagination, so lips moving w/o sound but breath and cup's steam spreading on
the glass, and little icicles from the rainy melt of yesterday's snow hanging from the anodized gutters just above the window and
seen by Tavis as a distant skyline upside-down. In the lightening sky the same two or three clouds seem to move back and forth
like sentries. The heat comes on with a distant whoom and the glass against his forehead trembles slightly. A hiss of low static
from the speaker it had fallen into sleep without turning off. The A-team's array keeps shifting and melding as they await Schtitt.
Permutations of complications.
      Tavis watches the boys stretch and confer and sips from the cup with both hands, the concerns of the day assembling
themselves in a sort of tree-diagram of worry. Charles Tavis knows what James Incandenza could not have cared about less: the
key to the successful administration of a top-level junior tennis academy lies in cultivating a kind of reverse-Buddhism, a state of
Total Worry.
      So the best E.T.A. players' special perk is they get hauled out of bed at dawn, still crusty-eyed and pale with sleep, to drill in
the first shift.
      Dawn drills are of course alfresco until they erect and inflate the Lung, which Hal Incandenza hopes is soon. His circulation is
poor because of tobacco and/or marijuana, and even with his DUNLOp-down-both-legs sweatpants and a turtleneck and thick old
white alpaca tennis jacket that had been his father's and has to be rolled up at the sleeves, he's sullen and chilled, Hal is, and by the
time they've run the pre-stretch sprints up and down the E.T.A. hill four times, swinging their sticks madly in all directions and (at
A. deLint's dictate) making various half-hearted warrior-noises, Hal is both chilled and wet, and his sneakers squelch from dew as
he hops in place and looks at his breath, wincing as the cold air hits the one bad tooth.
      By the time they're all stretching out, lined up in rows along the service-and baselines, flexing and bowing, genuflecting to
nothing, changing postures at the sound of a whistle, by this time the sky has lightened to the color of Kaopectate. The
ATHSCME fans are idle and the E.T.A.s can hear birds. Smoke from the stacks of the Sunstrand complex is weakly sunlit as it
hangs in plumes, completely still, as if painted on the air. Tiny cries and a repetitive scream for help come up from someplace
downhill to the east, presumably Enfield Marine. This is the one time of day the Charles doesn't look bright blue. The pines' birds
don't sound any happier than the players. The grounds' non-pines are bare and canted at circuitous hillside angles all up and down
the hill when they sprint again, four more times, then on bad days another four, maybe the most hated part of the day's
conditioning. Somebody always throws up a little; it's like the drills' reveille. The river at dawn is a strip of foil's dull side. Kyle
Coyle keeps saying it's co-wo-wold. All the lesser players are still abed. Today there's multiple retching, from last night's sweets.
Hal's breath hangs before his face until he moves through it. Sprints produce the sick sound of much squelching; everyone wishes
the hill's grass would die.
     Twenty-four girls are drilled in groups of six on four of the Center Courts. The 32 boys (minus, rather ominously, J. J. Penn)
are split by rough age into fours and take a semi-staggered eight of the East Courts. Schtitt is up in his little observational crow's
nest, a sort of apse at the end of the iron transom players call the Tower that extends west to east over the centers of all three sets
of courts and terminates w/ the nest high above the Show Courts. He has a chair and an ashtray up there. Sometimes from the
courts you can see him leaning over the railing, tapping the edge of the bullhorn with his weatherman's pointer; from the West and
Center Courts the rising sun behind him gives his white head a pinkish corona. When he's seated you just see misshapen smoke-
rings coming up out of the nest and moving off with the wind. The sound of the bullhorn is scarier when you can't see him. The
waffled iron stairs leading up to the transom are west of the West Courts, all the way across from the nest, so sometimes Schtitt
paces back and forth along the transom with his pointer behind his back, his boots ringing out on the iron. Schtitt seems immune
to all weather and always dresses the same for drills: the warm-ups and boots. When the E.T.A.s' strokes or play's being filmed for
study, Mario Incandenza is positioned on the railing of Schtitt's nest, leaning way out and filming down, his police lock protruding
into empty air, with somebody beefy assigned to stand behind him and grip the back of the Velcro vest: it always scares hell out of
Hal because you can never see Dunkel or Nwangi behind Mario and it always looks like he's leaning way out to dive Bolex-first
down onto Court 7's net.
     Except during periods of disciplinary conditioning, alfresco A.M. drills work like this. A prorector is at each relevant court
with two yellow Ball-Hopper-brand baskets of used balls, plus a ball machine, which machine looks like an open footlocker with a
blunt muzzle at one end pointed across the net at a quartet of boys and connected by long orange industrial cords to a three-prong
outdoor outlet at the base of each light-pole. Some of the light-poles cast long thin shadows across the courts as soon as the sun is
strong enough for there to be shadows; in summertime players try to sort of huddle in the thin lines of shade. Ortho Stice keeps
yawning and shivering; John Wayne wears a small cold smile. Hal hops up and down in his capacious jacket and plum turtleneck
and looks at his breath and tries a la Lyle to focus very intently on the pain of his tooth without judging it as bad or good. K. D.
Coyle, out of the infirmary after the weekend, opines that he doesn't see why the better players' reward for hard slogging to the
upper rungs is dawn drills while for instance Pemulis and the Vikemeister et al. are still horizontal and sawing logs. Coyle says
this every morning. Stice tells him he's surprised at how little they've missed him. Coyle is from the small Tucson AZ suburb of
Erythema and claims to have thin desert blood and special sensitivity to the wet chill of Boston's dawn. The WhataBurger Jr.
Invitational is a sort of double-edged Thanksgiving homecoming for Coyle, who at thirteen was lured from Tucson's own Rancho
Vista Golf and Tennis Academy by promises of self-transcendence from Schtitt.
     Drills work like this. Eight different emphases on eight different courts. Each quartet starts at a different court and rotates
around. The top four traditionally start drills on the first court: backhands down the line, two boys to a side. Corbett Thorp lays
down squares of electrician's tape at the court's corners and they are strongly encouraged to hit the balls into the little squares. Hal
hits with Stice, Coyle with Wayne; Axford's been sent down with Shaw and Struck for some reason. Second court: forehands,
same deal. Stice consistently misses the square and gets a low-pH rejoinder from Tex Watson, hatless and pattern-balding at
twenty-seven. Hal's tooth hurts and his ankle is stiff and the cold balls come off his strings with a dead sound like chung. Tiny
bratwursts of smoke ascend rhythmically from Schtitt's little nest. Third court is 'Butterflies,' a complex VAPS deal where Hal hits
a backhand down the line to Stice while Coyle forehands it to Wayne and then Wayne and Stice cross-court the balls back to Hal
and Coyle, who have to switch sides without bashing into each other and hit back down the line now to Wayne and Stice,
respectively. Wayne and Hal amuse themselves by making their cross-court balls collide on every fifth exchange or so -- this is
known around E.T.A. as 'atom-smashing' and is understandably hard to do -- and the collided balls sprong wildly out onto the
other practice courts, and Rik Dunkel is less amused than Wayne and Hal are, so, nicely warm now and arms singing, they're
shunted quickly onto the fourth court: volleys for depth, then for angle, then lobs and overheads, which latter drill can be
converted into a disciplinary Puker if a pro-rector's feeding you the lobs: the overhead drill's called Tap & Whack': Hal pedals
back, terribly ankle-conscious, jumps, kicks out, nails Slice's lob, then has to sprint up and tap the net's tape with his Dunlop's
head as Stice lobs deep again, and Hal has to backpedal again and jump and kick and hit it, and so on. Then Hal and Coyle, both
sucking wind after twenty and trying to stand up straight, feed lobs to Wayne and Stice, neither of whom is fatiguable as far as
anyone can tell. You have to kick out on overheads to keep your balance in the air. Overhead, Schtitt uses an unamplified bullhorn
and careful enunciation to call out for everyone to hear that Mr. revenant Hal Incandenza was letting the ball get the little much
behind him on overheads, fears of the ankle maybe. Hal raises his stick in acknowledgment without looking up. To hang in past
age fourteen here is to become immune to humiliation from staff. Coyle tells Hal between the lobs they send up he'd love to see
Schtitt have to do twenty Tap & Whacks in a row. They're all flushed to a shine, all chill washed off, noses running freely and
heads squeaking with blood, the sun well above the sea's dull glint and starting to melt the frozen slush from I.-Day's snow and
rain that night-custodians had swept into little wedged lines up against the lengthwise fences, which grimy wedges are now
starting to melt and run. There's still no movement in the Sunstrand stacks' plumes. The watching prorectors stand easy with their
legs apart and their arms crossed over their racquets' faces. The same three or four booger-shaped clouds seem to pass back and
forth overhead, and when they cover the sun people's breath reappears. Stice blows on his racquet-hand and cries out thinly for the
inflation of the Lung. Mr. A. F. deLint ranges behind the fence with his clipboard and whistle, blowing his nose. The girls behind
him are too bundled up to be worth watching, their hair rubber-banded into little bouncing tails.
     Fifth court: serves to both corners of both boxes, catching each others' serves and serving them back. First serves, second
serves, slice serves, shank serves, and back-snapping American Twist serves that Stice begs off of, telling the prorector -- Neil
Hartigan, who's 2 m. tall and of so few words everybody fears him by default -- he's having lower spasms from a mispositioned
bed. Then Coyle -- he of the weak bladder and suspicious discharge -- gets excused to go back into the eastern tree-line out of
sight of the distaffs and pee, so the other three get a minute to jog over to the pavilion and stand with their hands on their hips and
breathe and drink Gator-ade out of little conic paper cups you can't put down til they're empty. The way you flush out a cottony
mouth between drills is you take a mouthful of Gatorade and puff out your cheeks to make a globe of liquid that you mangle with
your teeth and tongue, then lean out and spit out into the grass and take another drink for real. The sixth court is returns of serve
down the line, down the center, cross-court for depth, then for placement, then for deep placement, w/ more taped squares; then
chipped center- and cross-returns against a server who follows his serve to the net. The server practices half-volleys off the chips,
although Wayne and Stice are so fast that they're on top of the net by the time the return gets to them and they can volley it away
at chest-height. Wayne drills with the casual economy of somebody who's in about second gear. The urns' dispensers' cups can't
stand up, their bottoms are pointy and they'll spill any liquid still in them, is why you have to empty them. Between squads
Harde's guys will sweep the pavilion of dozens of cones.
      Then, blessedly, on the seventh court, physically undemanding Finesse drills. Drops, drops for angles, topspin lobs, extreme
angles, drops for extreme angles, then restful microtennis, tennis inside the service lines, very soft and precise, radical angles
much encouraged. Touch- and artistry-wise nobody comes close to Hal in microtennis. By this time Hal's turtleneck is soaked
through under the alpaca jacket, and exchanging it for a sweatshirt out of the gear bag is a kind of renewal. What wind there is
down here is out of the south. The temperature is now probably in the low 10's C.; the sun's been up an hour, and you can almost
see the light-pole and transom shadows rotating slowly northwest. The Sunstrand stacks' plumes stand there cigarette-straight, not
even seeming to spread at the top; the sky is going a glassy blue.
      No (tennis) balls required on the final court. Wind sprints. Probably the less said about wind sprints the better. Then more
Gatorade, which Hal and Coyle are breathing too hard to enjoy, as Schtitt comes slowly down from the transom. It takes a while.
You can hear his steel-toed boots hit each iron step. There is something creepy about a very fit older man, to say nothing of
jackboots w/ Fila warm-ups of claret-colored silk. He's coming this way, both hands behind his back and the pointer poking out to
the side. Schtitt's crew cut and face are nacreous as he moves east in the yellowing a.m. light. This is sort of the signal for all the
quartets to gather at the Show Courts. Behind them the girls are still hitting groundstrokes in baroque combinations, much high-
pitched grunting and the lifeless chung of cold hit balls. Three 14's are made to squeegee the more extrusive melt back into the
little banks of frozen leaves along the fence. At the horizon to the north a bulbous cone of picric clouds that gets taller by the hour
as the Methuen-Andover border's mammoth effectuators force northern MA's combined oxides north against some sort of upper-
air resistance, it looks like. You can see little bits of glitter from broken monitor-glass in the frozen stuff up by the fences behind
6-9, and one or two curved shards of floppy disk, and they're a troubling sight, Penn being absent amid troubling leg-rumors,
Postal-Weight with two black eyes and his nose covered with horizontal bandages that are starting to loosen and curl at the edges
from sweat, and Otis P. Lord alleged to have come back from the emergency room at St. Elizabeth's last night with the Hitachi
monitor over his head, still, its removal, with all the sharp teeth of the broken screen's glass pointing at key parts of Lord's throat,
apparently calling for the sort of esoteric expertise you have to fly in by private medical jet, according to Axford.
      They all get on the outside of three cones of Gatorade, bent or squatting, sucking wind, while Schtitt stands at a sort of Parade
Rest with his weatherman's pointer behind his back and shares overall impressions with the players on the morning's work thus
far. Certain players are singled out for special mention or humiliation. Then more wind sprints. Then a brief like strategy-clinic-
thing from Corbett Thorp on how approach shots down the line aren't always the very best tactic, and why. Thorp's a first-rate
tennis mind, but his terrible stutter makes the boys so uncomfortable they have a hard time listening. <footnote>181</footnote>
      The whole first shift's on the eighth court for the final conditioning drills. <footnote>182</footnote> First are Star Drills. A dozen-plus boys on
either side of the net, behind the baselines. Form a line. Go one at a time. Go: run up the side line, touch the net with your stick;
then backwards to the outside corner of the service box and then forward to touch the net again; backward to the middle of the
service box, forward to touch net; back to the baseline's little jut of centerline, up to net; service box's other outside corner, net,
baseline's corner, net, then turn and run like hell for the corner you started from. Schtitt has a stopwatch. There's a janitorial
bucket <footnote>183</footnote> placed in the doubles alley by the finish point, for potential distress. They each do the Star Drill three times. Hal
has 41 seconds and 38 and 48, which is average both for him and for any seventeen-year-old with a resting pulse rate in the high
50s. John Wayne's low of 33 occurs on his third Star, and he stops dead at the finish point and always just stands there, never
bending or walking it off. Stice gets a 29 and everyone gets very excited until Schtitt says he was slow starting the watch: the
arthritis in a thumb. Everyone but Wayne and Stice uses the retch-bucket in a sort of pro forma way. Sixteen-year-old Petropolis
Kahn, a.k.a. 'W.M.' for 'Woolly Mammoth' because he's so hairy, gets a 60 and then a 59 and then pitches forward onto the hard
surface and lies very still. Tony Nwangi tells people to walk around him.
      The cardiovascular finale is Side-to-Sides, conceived by van der Meer in the B.S. '60s and demonic in its simplicity. Again
split into fours on eight courts. For the top 18's, prorector R. Dunkel at net with an armful of balls and more in a hopper beside
him, hitting fungoes, one to the forehand corner and then one to the backhand corner and then farther out to the forehand corner
and so on. And on. Hal Incandenza is expected at least to get a racquet on each ball; for Stice and Wayne the expectations are
higher. A very unpleasant drill fatigue-wise, and for Hal also ankle-wise, what with all the stopping and reversing. Hal wears two
bandages over a left ankle he shaves way more often than his upper lip. Over the bandages goes an Air-Stirrup inflatable ankle
brace that's very lightweight but looks a bit like a medieval torture-implement. It was in a stop-and-reverse move much like Side-
to-Sides <footnote>184</footnote> that Hal tore all the soft left-ankle tissue he then owned, at fifteen, in his ankle, at Atlanta's Easter Bowl, in the
third round, which he was losing anyway. Dunkel goes fairly easy on Hal, at least on the first two go-arounds, because of the
ankle. Hal's going to be seeded in at least the top 4 at the WhataBurger Inv. in a couple weeks, and woe to the prorector who lets
Hal get hurt the way Hal let some of his Little Buddies get hurt yesterday.
      What's potentially demonic about Side-to-Sides is that the duration of the drill and pace and angle of the fungoes to be chased
down from side to side are entirely at the prorector's discretion. Prorector Rik Dunkel, a former 16's-doubles runner-up at Jr.
Wimbledon and a decent enough guy, the son of some kind of plastic-packaging-systems tycoon on the South Shore, tied with
Thorp for brightest of the prorectors (more or less by default), regarded as kind of a mystic because he refers people sometimes to
Lyle and has been observed sitting at community gatherings with his eyes closed but not sleeping .. . but the point is a decent
enough guy but not much into any kind of exchange of quarter. He seems to have received instructions to put the particular hurt on
Ortho Stice this time, and by his third go-around Stice is trying to weep without breath and mewing for his aunts. <footnote>185</footnote> But
anyway everybody goes through Sides-to-Sides three times. Even Petropolis Kahn staggers through them, who after Stars had had
to be sort of lugged over by Stephan Wagenknecht and Jeff Wax with his Nikes dragging behind him and his head swinging free
on his neck and given kind of a swingset-shove to get started. Hal feels for Kahn, who's not fat but is in the Schacht-type mold,
very thick and solid, except also carrying extra weight in terms of leg-and-back-hair, and who always tires easily no matter how
hard he conditions. Kahn makes it through but stays bent over the distress-bucket long after the third go-around, staring into it,
and stays that way while everybody else removes more soaked bottom layers of clothing and accepts clean towels from a halfway-
house part-time black girl with a towel cart, and picks up balls. <footnote>186</footnote>
      It is O72Oh. and they are through with the active part of dawn drills. Nwangi, at the edge of the hillside, is whistling the next
shift over for opening sprints. Schtitt shares more overall impressions as minimum-wage aides dispense Kleenex and paper cones.
Nwangi's reedy voice carries; he's telling the B's he wishes to see nothing but assholes and elbows on these sprints. It's unclear to
Hal what this might connote. The A-players have formed those ragged rows behind the baseline again, and Schtitt paces back and
forth.
      'Am seeing sluggish drilling, by sluggards. Not meaning insults. This is the fact. Motions are gone through. Barely minimal
efforts. Cold, yes? The cold hands and nose with mucus? Thoughts on getting through, going in, hot showers, water very hot. A
meal. The thoughts are drifting toward the comfort of ending. Too cold to demand the total, yes? Master Chu, too cold for tennis
at the high level, yes?'
      Chu: 'It does seem pretty cold out, sir.'
      'Ah.' Pacing back and forth with about-faces at every tenth step, stopwatch around his neck, pipe and pouch and pointer in his
hands behind his back, nodding to himself, clearly wishing he had a third hand so he could stroke his white chin, pretending to
ruminate. Every A.M. essentially the same, except when Schtitt does the females and the males get dressed down by deLint. All
the older boys' eyes are glazed with repetition. Hal's tooth gives off little electric shivers with each inbreath, and he feels slightly
unwell. When he moves his head slightly the monitor-glass bits' glitter shifts and dances along the opposite fence in a sort of
sickening way.
      'Ah.' Turns crisply toward them, looking briefly skyward. 'And when is hot? Too pretty hot for the total self on the court? The
other hand of the spectrum? Ach. Is always something that is too. Master Incandenza who cannot quickly get behind lob's descent
so weight can move forvart into overhand, <footnote>187</footnote> please tell your thinking: it is always hot or cold, yes?'
      A small smile, "s been our general observation out there, sir.'
      'So then then so, Master Chu, from California's temperance regions?'
      Chu brings down his hankie. 'I guess we have to learn to adjust to conditions, sir, I believe is what you're saying.'
      A full sharp half-turn to face the group. 'Is what I am not saying, young LaMont Chu, is why you cease to seem to give total
effort of self since you begin with the clipping pictures of great professional figures for your adhesive tape and walls. No?
Because, privileged gentlemen and boys I am saying, is always something that is too. Cold. Hot. Wet and dry. Very bright sun and
you see the purple dots. Very bright hot and you have no salt. Outside is wind, the insects which like the sweat. Inside is smell of
heaters, echo, being jammed in together, tarp is overdose to baseline, not enough of room, bells inside clubs which ring the hour
loudly to distract, clunk of machines vomiting sweet cola for coins. Inside roof too low for the lob. Bad lighting, so. Or outside:
the bad surface. Oh no look no: crabgrass in cracks along baseline. Who could give the total, with crabgrass. Look here is low net
high net. Opponent's relatives heckle, opponent cheats, linesman in semifinal is impaired or cheats. You hurt. You have the injury.
Bad knee and back. Hurt groin area from not stretching as asked. Aches of elbow. Eyelash in eye. The throat is sore. A too pretty
girl in audience, watching. Who could play like this? Big crowd overwhelming or too small to inspire. Always something.'
      His turns as he paces are crisp and used to punctuate. 'Adjust. Adjust? Stay the same. No? Is not stay the same? It is cold? It is
wind? Cold and wind is the world. Outside, yes? On the tennis court the you the player: this is not where there is cold wind. I am
saying. Different world mside. World built inside cold outside world of wind breaks the wind, shelters the player, you, if you stay
the same, stay inside.' Pacing gradually faster, the turns becoming pirouettic. The older kids stare straight ahead; some of the
younger follow every move of the pointer with wide eyes. Trevor Axford is bent at the waist and moving his head slightly, trying
to get the sweat dripping off his face to spell something out on the surface. Schtitt is silent for two fast about-faces, ranging before
them, tapping his jaw with the pointer. 'Not ever I think this adjusting. To what, this adjusting? This world inside is the same,
always, if you stay there. This is what we are making, no? New type citizen. Not of cold and wind outside. Citizens of this
sheltering second world we are working to show you every dawn, no? To make your introduction.' The Big Buddies translate
Schtitt into accessible language for the littler kids, is a big part of their assignment.
      'Borders of court for singles Mr. Rader are what.'
      'Twenty-four by eight sir,' sounding hoarse and thin.
      'So. Second world without cold or purple dots of bright for you is 23.8 meters, 8 I think .2 meters. Yes? In that world is joy
because there is shelter of something else, of purpose past sluggardly self and complaints about uncomfort. I am speaking to not
just LaMont Chu of the temperance world. You have a chance to occur, playing. No? To make for you this second world that is
always the same: there is in this world you, and in the hand a tool, there is a ball, there is opponent with his tool, and always only
two of you, you and this other, inside the lines, with always a purpose to keep this world alive, yes?' The pointer-motions through
all this become too orchestral and intricate to describe. 'This second world inside the lines. Yes? Is this adjusting? This is not
adjusting. This is not adjusting to ignore cold and wind and tired. Not ignoring "as if." Is no cold. Is no wind. No cold wind where
you occur. No? Not "adjust to conditions." Make this second world inside the world: here there are no conditions.'
      Looks around.
      'So put a lid on it about the fucking cold,' says deLint, with his clipboard under his arm and his strangler-sized hands in his
pockets, hopping a little in place.
      Schtitt is looking around. Like most Germans outside popular entertainment, he gets quieter when he wants to impress or
menace. (There are very few shrill Germans, actually.) 'If it is hard,' he says softly, hard to hear because of the rising wind,
'difficult, for you to move between the two worlds, from cold hot wind and sun to this inside place inside the lines where is always
the same,' he says, seeming now to study the weatherman's pointer he holds down and out with both hands, 'it can be arranged for
you gentlemen not to leave, ever here, this world inside the lines of court. You know. Can stay here until there is citizenship.
Right here.' The pointer is pointed at the spots they're standing at breathing and blotting their faces and blowing their noses. 'Can
today put up Testar Lung, for world's shelter. Sleep bags. Meals brought to you. Never across the lines. Never leave the court.
Study here. A bucket for hygienic needs. At Gymnasium Kaiserslautern where I am privileged boy who whining about cold wind,
we live inside tennis court for months, to learn to live inside. Very lucky days when they bring us meals. Not possible to cross a
line for months of living.'
      Left-hander Brian van Vleck picks a bad moment to break wind.
      Schtitt shrugs, half-turning away from them to look off somewhere. 'Or else leave here into large external world where is cold
and pain without purpose or tool, eyelash in eye and pretty girl -- not worry anymore about how to occur.' Looks around. 'No one
is a prisoner here. Who would like to escape into large world? Master Sweeny?'
      Little eyes down.
      'Mr. Coyle, with always too co-wold to give total?'
      Coyle studies the vasculature on the inside of his elbow with deep interest as he shakes his head. John Wayne is joggling his
head around like a Raggedy-Andy-head, stretching out the neck hardware. John Wayne is notoriously tight and can't touch
anything below the knee with straight legs during stretches.
      'Mr. Peter Beak with always the weeping to home on the telephone?'
      The twelve-year-old says Not Me Sir several times.
      Hal very subtly shoots in a small plug of Kodiak. Aubrey deLint has his arms crossed over the clipboard and is looking
around beadily like a crow. Hal Incandenza has an almost obsessive dislike for deLint, whom he tells Mario he sometimes cannot
quite believe is even real, and tries to get to the side of, to see whether deLint has a true z coordinate or is just a cutout or
projection. The kids of the next shift are walking downhill and sprinting back up and walking down, warrior-whooping without
conviction. The other male prorectors are drinking cones of Gatorade, clustered in the little pavilion, feet up on patio-chairs,
Dunkel's and Watson's eyes closed. Neil Hartígan, in his traditional Tahitian shirt and Gaugin-motif sweater, has to stay sitting
down to fit under the Gatorade awning.
      'Simple,' Schtitt shrugs, so that the upraised pointer seems to stab at the sky. 'Hit,' he suggests. 'Move. Travel lightly. Occur.
Be here. Not in bed or shower or over baconschteam, in the mind. Be here in total. Is nothing else. Learn. Try. Drink your green
juice. Perform the Butterfly exercises on all eight of these courts, please, to warm down. Mr. deLint, please to bring them back
down, make sure of stretching the groins. Gentlemen: hit tennis balls. Fire at your will. Use a head. You are not arms. Arm in the
real tennis is like wheels of vehicles. Not engine. Legs: not either. Where is where you apply for citizenship in second world Mr.
consciousness of ankle Incan-denza, our revenant?'
      Hal can lean out and spit in a way that isn't insolent. 'Head, sir.'
      'Excuse?'
      'The human head, sir, if I got your thrust. Where I'm going to occur as a player. The game's two heads' one world. One world,
sir.'
      Schtitt sweeps the pointer in an ironic morendo arc and laughs aloud:
      'Play.'